  19.  How Bunnybury Welcomed the Strangers

  20.  How Dorothy Lunched With a King

  21.  How the King Changed His Mind

  22.  How the Wizard Found Dorothy

  23.  How They Encountered the Flutterbudgets

  24.  How the Tin Woodman Told the Sad News

  25.  How the Scarecrow Displayed His Wisdom

  26.  How Ozma Refused to Fight for Her Kingdom

  27.  How the Fierce Warriors Invaded Oz

  28.  How They Drank at the Forbidden Fountain

  29.  How Glinda Worked a Magic Spell

  30.  How the Story of Oz Came to an End









Author's Note





Perhaps I should admit on the title page that this book is "By L.

Frank Baum and his correspondents," for I have used many suggestions

conveyed to me in letters from children.  Once on a time I really

imagined myself "an author of fairy tales," but now I am merely an

editor or private secretary for a host of youngsters whose ideas I am

requestsed to weave into the thread of my stories.



These ideas are often clever.  They are also logical and interesting.

So I have used them whenever I could find an opportunity, and it is but

just that I acknowledge my indebtedness to my little friends.



My, what imaginations these children have developed!  Sometimes I am

fairly astounded by their daring and genius.  There will be no lack of

fairy-tale authors in the future, I am sure.  My readers have told me

what to do with Dorothy, and Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, and I have obeyed

their mandates.  They have also given me a variety of subjects to write

about in the future: enough, in fact, to keep me busy for some time.  I

am very proud of this alliance.  Children love these stories because

children have helped to create them.  My readers know what they want

and realize that I try to please them.  The result is very satisfactory


Em softly crying while Uncle Henry tried to comfort her.  Then Dorothy

asked them to tell her what was the matter.



"We must give up the farm, my dear," replied her uncle sadly, "and

wander away into the world to work for our living."



The girl listened quite seriously, for she had not known before how

desperately poor they were.



"We don't mind for ourselves," said her aunt, stroking the little

girl's head tenderly; "but we love you as if you were our own child,

and we are heart-broken to think that you must also endure poverty, and

work for a living before you have grown big and strong."



"What could I do to earn money?" asked Dorothy.



"You might do housework for some one, dear, you are so handy; or

perhaps you could be a nurse-maid to little children.  I'm sure I don't

know exactly what you CAN do to earn money, but if your uncle and I are

able to support you we will do it willingly, and send you to school.

We fear, though, that we shall have much trouble in earning a living

for ourselves.  No one wants to employ old people who are broken down

in health, as we are."



Dorothy smiled.



"Wouldn't it be funny," she said, "for me to do housework in Kansas,

when I'm a Princess in the Land of Oz?"



"A Princess!" they both exclaimed, astonished.



"Yes; Ozma made me a Princess some time ago, and she has often begged

me to come and live always in the Emerald City," said the child.



Her uncle and aunt looked at her in amazement.  Then the man said:



"Do you suppose you could manage to return to your fairyland, my dear?"



"Oh yes," replied Dorothy; "I could do that easily."



"How?" asked Aunt Em.



"Ozma sees me every day at four o'clock, in her Magic Picture.  She can

see me wherever I am, no matter what I am doing.  And at that time, if

I make a certain secret sign, she will send for me by means of the



4.  How The Nome King Planned Revenge



The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good.

Now, the Nome King had never tried to be good, so he was very bad

indeed.  Having decided to conquer the Land of Oz and to destroy the

Emerald City and enslave all its people, King Roquat the Red kept

planning ways to do this dreadful thing, and the more he planned the

more he believed he would be able to accomplish it.



About the time Dorothy went to Ozma the Nome King called his Chief

Steward to him and said:



"Kaliko, I think I shall make you the General of my armies."



"I think you won't," replied Kaliko, positively.



"Why not?" inquired the King, reaching for his scepter with the big

sapphire.



"Because I'm your Chief Steward and know nothing of warfare," said

Kaliko, preparing to dodge if anything were thrown at him.  "I manage

all the affairs of your kingdom better than you could yourself, and

you'll never find another Steward as good as I am.  But there are a

hundred Nomes better fitted to command your army, and your Generals get

thrown away so often that I have no desire to be one of them."



"Ah, there is some truth in your remarks, Kaliko," remarked the King,

deciding not to throw the scepter.  "Summon my army to assemble in the

Great Cavern."



Kaliko bowed and retired, and in a few minutes returned to say that the

army was assembled.  So the King went out upon a balcony that

overlooked the Great Cavern, where fifty thousand Nomes, all armed with

swords and pikes, stood marshaled in military array.



When they were not required as soldiers all these Nomes were metal

workers and miners, and they had hammered so much at the forges and dug

so hard with pick and shovel that they had acquired great muscular

strength.  They were strangely formed creatures, rather round and not

very tall.  Their toes were curly and their ears broad and flat.


in the dome an orchestra played sweet music, and beneath the dome two

electric fountains sent sprays of colored perfumed water shooting up

nearly as high as the arched ceiling.



"Are you ready, Dorothy?" asked the Ruler.



"I am," replied Dorothy; "but I don't know whether Aunt Em and Uncle

Henry are ready."



"That won't matter," declared Ozma.  "The old life can have very little

to interest them, and the sooner they begin the new life here the

happier they will be.  Here they come, my dear!"



As she spoke, there before the throne appeared Uncle Henry and Aunt Em,

who for a moment stood motionless, glaring with white and startled

faces at the scene that confronted them.  If the ladies and gentlemen

present had not been so polite I am sure they would have laughed at the

two strangers.



Aunt Em had her calico dress skirt "tucked up," and she wore a faded,

blue-checked apron.  Her hair was rather straggly and she had on a pair

of Uncle Henry's old slippers.  In one hand she held a dish-towel and

in the other a cracked earthenware plate, which she had been engaged in

wiping when so suddenly transported to the Land of Oz.



Uncle Henry, when the summons came, had been out in the barn "doin'

chores."  He wore a ragged and much soiled straw hat, a checked shirt

without any collar and blue overalls tucked into the tops of his old

cowhide boots.



"By gum!" gasped Uncle Henry, looking around as if bewildered.



"Well, I swan!" gurgled Aunt Em in a hoarse, frightened voice.  Then

her eyes fell upon Dorothy, and she said: "D-d-d-don't that look like

our little girl--our Dorothy, Henry?"



"Hi, there--look out, Em!" exclaimed the old man, as Aunt Em advanced a

step; "take care o' the wild beastses, or you're a goner!"



But now Dorothy sprang forward and embraced and kissed her aunt and

uncle affectionately, afterward taking their hands in her own.



"Don't be afraid," she said to them.  "You are now in the Land of Oz,

"And where's the Wonderful Wizard?" asked Aunt Em.



"You'll see him at Ozma's luncheon, for he lives here in this palace,"

was the reply.



"And Jack Pumpkinhead?"



"Oh, he lives a little way out of town, in his own pumpkin field.

We'll go there some time and see him, and we'll call on Professor

Wogglebug, too.  The Shaggy Man will be at the luncheon, I guess, and

Tiktok.  And now I'll take you out to see Billina, who has a house of

her own."



So they went into the back yard, and after walking along winding paths

some distance through the beautiful gardens they came to an attractive

little house where the Yellow Hen sat on the front porch sunning

herself.



"Good morning, my dear Mistress," called Billina, fluttering down to

meet them.  "I was expecting you to call, for I heard you had come back

and brought your uncle and aunt with you."



"We're here for good and all, this time, Billina," cried Dorothy,

joyfully.  "Uncle Henry and Aunt Em belong to Oz now as much as I do!"



"Then they are very lucky people," declared Billina; "for there

couldn't be a nicer place to live.  But come, my dear; I must show you

all my Dorothys.  Nine are living and have grown up to be very

respectable hens; but one took cold at Ozma's birthday party and died

of the pip, and the other two turned out to be horrid roosters, so I

had to change their names from Dorothy to Daniel.  They all had the

letter 'D' engraved upon their gold lockets, you remember, with your

picture inside, and 'D' stands for Daniel as well as for Dorothy."



"Did you call both the roosters Daniel?" asked Uncle Henry.



"Yes, indeed.  I've nine Dorothys and two Daniels; and the nine

Dorothys have eighty-six sons and daughters and over three hundred

grandchildren," said Billina, proudly.



"What names do you give 'em all, dear?" inquired the little girl.



"Oh, they are all Dorothys and Daniels, some being Juniors and some


Gallipoot sending for the prisoner.



"Wait a few hours," begged the jailer.  "I haven't pulled out a quarter

of his whiskers yet."



"If you keep the Grand Gallipoot waiting, he'll break your back,"

declared the messenger.



"Perhaps you're right," sighed the jailer.  "Take the prisoner away, if

you will, but I advise you to kick him at every step he takes.  It will

be good fun, for he is as soft as a ripe peach."



So Guph was led away to the royal castle, where the Grand Gallipoot

told him that the Growleywogs had decided to assist the Nomes in

conquering the Land of Oz.



"Whenever you are ready," he added, "send me word and I will march with

eighteen thousand of my most powerful warriors to your aid."



Guph was so delighted that he forgot all the smarting caused by the

pins and the pulling of whiskers.  He did not even complain of the

treatment he had received, but thanked the Grand Gallipoot and hurried

away upon his journey.



He had now secured the assistance of the Whimsies and the Growleywogs;

but his success made him long for still more allies.  His own life

depended upon his conquering Oz, and he said to himself:



"I'll take no chances.  I'll be certain of success.  Then, when Oz is

destroyed, perhaps I shall be a greater man than old Roquat, and I can

throw him away and be King of the Nomes myself.  Why not?  The Whimsies

are stronger than the Nomes, and they also are my friends.  There are

some people still stronger than the Growleywogs, and if I can but

induce them to aid me I shall have nothing more to fear."







9.  How the Wogglebug Taught Athletics



It did not take Dorothy long to establish herself in her new home, for

she knew the people and the manners and customs of the Emerald City

just as well as she knew the old Kansas farm.



But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em had some trouble in getting used to the

There was also a hand pointing in the right direction, so they turned

the Sawhorse that way and found it a very good road, but seemingly

little traveled.



"I've never seen the Cuttenclips before," remarked Dorothy.



"Nor I," said the Captain General.



"Nor I," said the Wizard.



"Nor I," said Billina.



"I've hardly been out of the Emerald City since I arrived in this

country," added the Shaggy Man.



"Why, none of us has been there, then," exclaimed the little girl.  "I

wonder what the Cuttenclips are like."



"We shall soon find out," said the Wizard, with a sly laugh.  "I've

heard they are rather flimsy things."



The farm-houses became fewer as they proceeded, and the path was at

times so faint that the Sawhorse had hard work to keep in the road.

The wagon began to jounce, too; so they were obliged to go slowly.



After a somewhat wearisome journey they came in sight of a high wall,

painted blue with pink ornaments.  This wall was circular, and seemed

to enclose a large space.  It was so high that only the tops of the

trees could be seen above it.



The path led up to a small door in the wall, which was closed and

latched.  Upon the door was a sign in gold letters reading as follows:





VISITORS are requested to MOVE SLOWLY and CAREFULLY, and to avoid

COUGHING or making any BREEZE or DRAUGHT.





"That's strange," said the Shaggy Man, reading the sign aloud.  "Who

ARE the Cuttenclips, anyhow?"



"Why, they're paper dolls," answered Dorothy.  "Didn't you know that?"



"Paper dolls!  Then let's go somewhere else," said Uncle Henry.  "We're

all too old to play with dolls, Dorothy."



"But these are different," declared the girl.  "They're alive."



"Alive!" gasped Aunt Em, in amazement.



"Yes.  Let's go in," said Dorothy.



So they all got out of the wagon, since the door in the wall was not


directly west.  A squirrel, perched in a tree, saw him take this road

and called to him warningly: "Look out!"  But he paid no attention.  An

eagle paused in its flight through the air to look at him wonderingly

and say: "Look out!"  But on he went.



No one can say that Guph was not brave, for he had determined to visit

those dangerous creatures the Phanfasms, who resided upon the very top

of the dread Mountain of Phantastico.  The Phanfasms were Erbs, and so

dreaded by mortals and immortals alike that no one had been near their

mountain home for several thousand years.  Yet General Guph hoped to

induce them to join in his proposed warfare against the good and happy

Oz people.



Guph knew very well that the Phanfasms would be almost as dangerous to

the Nomes as they would to the Ozites, but he thought himself so clever

that he believed he could manage these strange creatures and make them

obey him.  And there was no doubt at all that if he could enlist the

services of the Phanfasms, their tremendous power, united to the

strength of the Growleywogs and the cunning of the Whimsies would doom

the Land of Oz to absolute destruction.



So the old Nome climbed the foothills and trudged along the wild

mountain paths until he came to a big gully that encircled the Mountain

of Phantastico and marked the boundary line of the dominion of the

Phanfasms.  This gully was about a third of the way up the mountain,

and it was filled to the brim with red-hot molten lava in which swam

fire-serpents and poisonous salamanders.  The heat from this mass and

its poisonous smell were both so unbearable that even birds hesitated

to fly over the gully, but circled around it.  All living things kept

away from the mountain.



Now Guph had heard, during his long lifetime, many tales of these

dreaded Phanfasms; so he had heard of this barrier of melted lava, and

also he had been told that there was a narrow bridge that spanned it in

one place.  So he walked along the edge until he found the bridge.  It

"I don't know, I'm sure," said the Wizard.



Just then, as they rode along the pretty green lane toward

Fuddlecumjig, they espied a kangaroo sitting by the roadside.  The poor

animal had its face covered with both its front paws and was crying so

bitterly that the tears coursed down its cheeks in two tiny streams and

trickled across the road, where they formed a pool in a small hollow.



The Sawhorse stopped short at this pitiful sight, and Dorothy cried

out, with ready sympathy:



"What's the matter, Kangaroo?"



"Boo-hoo!  Boo-hoo!" wailed the Kangaroo; "I've lost my mi--mi--mi--Oh,

boo-hoo!  Boo-hoo!"--



"Poor thing," said the Wizard, "she's lost her mister.  It's probably

her husband, and he's dead."



"No, no, no!" sobbed the kangaroo.  "It--it isn't that.  I've lost my

mi--mi--Oh, boo, boo-hoo!"



"I know," said the Shaggy Man; "she's lost her mirror."



"No; it's my mi--mi--mi--Boo-hoo!  My mi--Oh, Boo-hoo!" and the

kangaroo cried harder than ever.



"It must be her mince-pie," suggested Aunt Em.



"Or her milk-toast," proposed Uncle Henry.



"I've lost my mi--mi--mittens!" said the kangaroo, getting it out at

last.



"Oh!" cried the Yellow Hen, with a cackle of relief.  "Why didn't you

say so before?"



"Boo-hoo!  I--I--couldn't," answered the kangaroo.



"But, see here," said Dorothy, "you don't need mittens in this warm

weather."



"Yes, indeed I do," replied the animal, stopping her sobs and removing

her paws from her face to look at the little girl reproachfully.  "My

hands will get all sunburned and tanned without my mittens, and I've

worn them so long that I'll probably catch cold without them."



"Nonsense!" said Dorothy.  "I never heard of any kangaroo wearing

mittens."



"Didn't you?" asked the animal, as if surprised.



"Never!" repeated the girl.  "And you'll probably make yourself sick if

you don't stop crying.  Where do you live?"



"About two miles beyond Fuddlecumjig," was the answer.  "Grandmother

Gnit made me the mittens, and she's one of the Fuddles."


congratulate you, Guph, upon the wonderful success of your journey."



"But that is not all," said the General, proudly.



The King seemed astonished.  "Speak out, sir!" he commanded.



"I have seen the First and Foremost Phanfasm of the Mountain of

Phantastico, and he will bring his people to assist us."



"What!" cried the King.  "The Phanfasms!  You don't mean it, Guph!"



"It is true," declared the General, proudly.



The King became thoughtful, and his brows wrinkled.



"I'm afraid, Guph," he said rather anxiously, "that the First and

Foremost may prove as dangerous to us as to the Oz people.  If he and

his terrible band come down from the mountain they may take the notion

to conquer the Nomes!"



"Pah!  That is a foolish idea," retorted Guph, irritably, but he knew

in his heart that the King was right.  "The First and Foremost is a

particular friend of mine, and will do us no harm.  Why, when I was

there, he even invited me into his house."



The General neglected to tell the King how he had been jerked into the

hut of the First and Foremost by means of the brass hoop.  So Roquat

the Red looked at his General admiringly and said:



"You are a wonderful Nome, Guph.  I'm sorry I did not make you my

General before.  But what reward did the First and Foremost demand?"



"Nothing at all," answered Guph.  "Even the Magic Belt itself could not

add to his powers of sorcery.  All the Phanfasms wish is to destroy the

Oz people, who are good and happy.  This pleasure will amply repay them

for assisting us."



"When will they come?" asked Roquat, half fearfully.



"When the tunnel is completed," said the General.



"We are nearly halfway under the desert now," announced the King; "and

that is fast work, because the tunnel has to be drilled through solid

rock.  But after we have passed the desert it will not take us long to


clear, sparkling water.  The Wizard told Dorothy that she was a good

cook and he believed their supper was ready.



So Uncle Henry lifted the kettle from the fire and poured its contents

into a big platter which the Wizard held for him.  The platter was

fairly heaped with a fine stew, smoking hot, with many kinds of

vegetables and dumplings and a rich, delicious gravy.



The Wizard triumphantly placed the platter upon the table in the dining

tent and then they all sat down in camp chairs to the feast.



There were several other dishes on the table, all carefully covered,

and when the time came to remove these covers they found bread and

butter, cakes, cheese, pickles and fruits--including some of the

luscious strawberries of Oz.



No one ventured to ask a question as to how these things came there.

They contented themselves by eating heartily the good things provided,

and Toto and Billina had their full share, you may be sure.  After the

meal was over, Aunt Em whispered to Dorothy:



"That may have been magic food, my dear, and for that reason perhaps it

won't be very nourishing; but I'm willing to say it tasted as good as

anything I ever et."  Then she added, in a louder voice: "Who's going

to do the dishes?"



"No one, madam," answered the Wizard.  "The dishes have 'done'

themselves."



"La sakes!" ejaculated the good lady, holding up her hands in

amazement.  For, sure enough, when she looked at the dishes they had a

moment before left upon the table, she found them all washed and dried

and piled up into neat stacks.







15.  How Dorothy Happened to Get Lost



It was a beautiful evening, so they drew their camp chairs in a circle

before one of the tents and began to tell stories to amuse themselves

and pass away the time before they went to bed.



Pretty soon a zebra was seen coming out of the forest, and he trotted

straight up to them and said politely:


and many of the utensils hopped off their stoves or their benches and

ran crowding around Dorothy and the hen and the dog.



"Stand back!" cried the Captain, sternly, and he led his captives

through the curious throng until they came before a big range that

stood in the center of the clearing.  Beside this range was a butcher

block upon which lay a great cleaver with a keen edge.  It rested upon

the flat of its back, its legs were crossed and it was smoking a long

pipe.



"Wake up, your Majesty," said the Captain.  "Here are prisoners."



Hearing this, King Kleaver sat up and looked at Dorothy sharply.



"Gristle and fat!" he cried.  "Where did this girl come from?"



"I found her in the forest and brought her here a prisoner," replied

the Captain.



"Why did you do that?" inquired the King, puffing his pipe lazily.



"To create some excitement," the Captain answered.  "It is so quiet

here that we are all getting rusty for want of amusement.  For my part,

I prefer to see stirring times."



"Naturally," returned the cleaver, with a nod.  "I have always said,

Captain, without a bit of irony, that you are a sterling officer and a

solid citizen, bowled and polished to a degree.  But what do you expect

me to do with these prisoners?"



"That is for you to decide," declared the Captain.  "You are the King."



"To be sure; to be sure," muttered the cleaver, musingly.  "As you say,

we have had dull times since the steel and grindstone eloped and left

us.  Command my Counselors and the Royal Courtiers to attend me, as

well as the High Priest and the Judge.  We'll then decide what can be

done."



The Captain saluted and retired and Dorothy sat down on an overturned

kettle and asked:



"Have you anything to eat in your kingdom?"



"Here!  Get up!  Get off from me!" cried a faint voice, at which his

Majesty the cleaver said:



"You're bread, aren't you?" she asked.



"Yes; bread and butter.  The butter is inside me, so it won't melt and

run.  I do the running myself."



At this joke all the others burst into a chorus of laughter, and

Dorothy thought they couldn't be much afraid if they could laugh like

that.



"Couldn't I eat something besides people?" she asked.  "Couldn't I eat

just one house, or a side-walk or something?  I wouldn't mind much what

it was, you know."



"This is not a public bakery, child," replied the man, sternly.  "It's

private property."



"I know Mr.--Mr.--"



"My name is C. Bunn, Esquire," said the man.  "'C' stands for Cinnamon,

and this place is called after my family, which is the most

aristocratic in the town."



"Oh, I don't know about that," objected another of the queer people.

"The Grahams and the Browns and Whites are all excellent families, and

there is none better of their kind.  I'm a Boston Brown, myself."



"I admit you are all desirable citizens," said Mr. Bunn rather stiffly;

"but the fact remains that our town is called Bunbury."



"'Scuse me," interrupted Dorothy; "but I'm getting hungrier every

minute.  Now, if you're polite and kind, as I'm sure you ought to be,

you'll let me eat SOMETHING.  There's so much to eat here that you will

never miss it."



Then a big, puffed-up man, of a delicate brown color, stepped forward

and said:



"I think it would be a shame to send this child away hungry, especially

as she agrees to eat whatever we can spare and not touch our people."



"So do I, Pop," replied a Roll who stood near.



"What, then, do you suggest, Mr. Over?" inquired Mr. Bunn.



"Why, I'll let her eat my back fence, if she wants to.  It's made of

waffles, and they're very crisp and nice."



"She may also eat my wheelbarrow," added a pleasant looking Muffin.

"It's made of nabiscos with a zuzu wheel."


mere narrow strip, worn hard and smooth but not wide enough for

Dorothy's feet to tread.  Still, it was a guide, and the walking

through the forest was not at all difficult.



Before long they reached a high wall of solid white marble, and the

path came to an end at this wall.



At first Dorothy thought there was no opening at all in the marble, but

on looking closely she discovered a small square door about on a level

with her head, and underneath this closed door was a bell-push.  Near

the bell-push a sign was painted in neat letters upon the marble, and

the sign read:





NO ADMITTANCE



EXCEPT ON BUSINESS





This did not discourage Dorothy, however, and she rang the bell.



Pretty soon a bolt was cautiously withdrawn and the marble door swung

slowly open.  Then she saw it was not really a door, but a window, for

several brass bars were placed across it, being set fast in the marble

and so close together that the little girl's fingers might barely go

between them.  Back of the bars appeared the face of a white rabbit--a

very sober and sedate face--with an eye-glass held in his left eye and

attached to a cord in his button-hole.



"Well! what is it?" asked the rabbit, sharply.



"I'm Dorothy," said the girl, "and I'm lost, and--"



"State your business, please," interrupted the rabbit.



"My business," she replied, "is to find out where I am, and to--"



"No one is allowed in Bunnybury without an order or a letter of

introduction from either Ozma of Oz or Glinda the Good," announced the

rabbit; "so that settles the matter," and he started to close the

window.



"Wait a minute!" cried Dorothy.  "I've got a letter from Ozma."



"From the Ruler of Oz?" asked the rabbit, doubtingly.



"Of course.  Ozma's my best friend, you know; and I'm a Princess

myself," she announced, earnestly.



"Hum--ha!  Let me see your letter," returned the rabbit, as if he still

I was a real rabbit, as nature made me--wild and free!--and I even

enjoyed listening to the startled throbbing of my own heart!"



"I've often thought," said Dorothy, who was busily eating, "that it

would be fun to be a rabbit."



"It IS fun--when you're the genuine article," agreed his Majesty.  "But

look at me now!  I live in a marble palace instead of a hole in the

ground.  I have all I want to eat, without the joy of hunting for it.

Every day I must dress in fine clothes and wear that horrible crown

till it makes my head ache.  Rabbits come to me with all sorts of

troubles, when my own troubles are the only ones I care about.  When I

walk out I can't hop and run; I must strut on my rear legs and wear an

ermine robe!  And the soldiers salute me and the band plays and the

other rabbits laugh and clap their paws and cry out: 'Hail to the

King!'  Now let me ask you, as a friend and a young lady of good

judgment: isn't all this pomp and foolishness enough to make a decent

rabbit miserable?"



"Once," said Dorothy, reflectively, "men were wild and unclothed and

lived in caves and hunted for food as wild beasts do.  But they got

civ'lized, in time, and now they'd hate to go back to the old days."



"That is an entirely different case," replied the King.  "None of you

Humans were civilized in one lifetime.  It came to you by degrees.  But

I have known the forest and the free life, and that is why I resent

being civilized all at once, against my will, and being made a King

with a crown and an ermine robe.  Pah!"



"If you don't like it, why don't you resign?" she asked.



"Impossible!" wailed the Rabbit, wiping his eyes again with his

handkerchief.  "There's a beastly law in this town that forbids it.

When one is elected a King, there's no getting out of it."



"Who made the laws?" inquired Dorothy.


pleasant things here in Bunnybury that I would miss if I went away.  So

perhaps I'd better stay."



Dorothy laughed.  Then she looked grave.



"It won't do for you to be a King and a cry-baby at the same time," she

said.  "You've been making all the other rabbits unhappy and

discontented with your howls about being so miserable.  So I guess it's

better to have another King."



"Oh, no indeed!" exclaimed the King, earnestly.  "If you won't say

anything to Glinda I'll promise to be merry and gay all the time, and

never cry or wail again."



"Honor bright?" she asked.



"On the royal word of a King I promise it!" he answered.



"All right," said Dorothy.  "You'd be a reg'lar lunatic to want to

leave Bunnybury for a wild life in the forest, and I'm sure any rabbit

outside the city would be glad to take your place."



"Forget it, my dear; forget all my foolishness," pleaded the King,

earnestly.  "Hereafter I'll try to enjoy myself and do my duty by my

subjects."



So then she left him and entered through the little door into the room

in the wall, where she grew gradually bigger and bigger until she had

resumed her natural size.



The Keeper of the Wicket let them out into the forest and told Dorothy

that she had been of great service to Bunnybury because she had brought

their dismal King to a realization of the pleasure of ruling so

beautiful a city.



"I shall start a petition to have your statue erected beside Glinda's

in the public square," said the Keeper.  "I hope you will come again,

some day, and see it."



"Perhaps I shall," she replied.



Then, followed by Toto and Billina, she walked away from the high

marble wall and started back along the narrow path toward the sign-post.







22.  How the Wizard Found Dorothy



When they came to the signpost, there, to their joy, were the tents of

she's bleeding to death!"



Then he turned and rushed back to the house, and all the party went

with him.  They found a woman in the front dooryard moaning and

groaning as if in great pain.



"Be brave, madam!" said the Wizard, consolingly.  "You won't die just

because you have cut off a finger, you may be sure."



"But I haven't cut off a finger!" she sobbed.



"Then what HAS happened?" asked Dorothy.



"I--I pricked my finger with a needle while I was sewing, and--and the

blood came!" she replied.  "And now I'll have blood-poisoning, and the

doctors will cut off my finger, and that will give me a fever and I

shall die!"



"Pshaw!" said Dorothy; "I've pricked my finger many a time, and nothing

happened."



"Really?" asked the woman, brightening and wiping her eyes upon her

apron.



"Why, it's nothing at all," declared the girl.  "You're more scared

than hurt."



"Ah, that's because she's a Flutterbudget," said the Wizard, nodding

wisely.  "I think I know now what these people are like."



"So do I," announced Dorothy.



"Oh, boo-hoo-hoo!" sobbed the woman, giving way to a fresh burst of

grief.



"What's wrong now?" asked the Shaggy Man.



"Oh, suppose I had pricked my foot!" she wailed.  "Then the doctors

would have cut my foot off, and I'd be lamed for life!"



"Surely, ma'am," replied the Wizard, "and if you'd pricked your nose

they might cut your head off.  But you see you didn't."



"But I might have!" she exclaimed, and began to cry again.  So they

left her and drove away in their wagon.  And her husband came out and

began calling "Help!" as he had before; but no one seemed to pay any

attention to him.



As the travelers turned into another street they found a man walking

excitedly up and down the pavement.  He appeared to be in a very

nervous condition and the Wizard stopped him to ask:




"Oh, what is it?" cried Dorothy.



"Do you remember the Nome King?" asked the Tin Woodman.



"I remember him very well," she replied.



"The Nome King has not a kind heart," said the Emperor, sadly, "and he

has been harboring wicked thoughts of revenge, because we once defeated

him and liberated his slaves and you took away his Magic Belt.  So he

has ordered his Nomes to dig a long tunnel underneath the deadly

desert, so that he may march his hosts right into the Emerald City.

When he gets there he intends to destroy our beautiful country."



Dorothy was much surprised to hear this.



"How did Ozma find out about the tunnel?" she asked.



"She saw it in her Magic Picture."



"Of course," said Dorothy; "I might have known that.  And what is she

going to do?"



"I cannot tell," was the reply.



"Pooh!" cried the Yellow Hen.  "We're not afraid of the Nomes.  If we

roll a few of our eggs down the tunnel they'll run away back home as

fast as they can go."



"Why, that's true enough!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "The Scarecrow once

conquered all the Nome King's army with some of Billina's eggs."



"But you do not understand all of the dreadful plot," continued the Tin

Woodman.  "The Nome King is clever, and he knows his Nomes would run

from eggs; so he has bargained with many terrible creatures to help

him.  These evil spirits are not afraid of eggs or anything else, and

they are very powerful.  So the Nome King will send them through the

tunnel first, to conquer and destroy, and then the Nomes will follow

after to get their share of the plunder and slaves."



They were all startled to hear this, and every face wore a troubled

look.



"Is the tunnel all ready?" asked Dorothy.



"Ozma sent me word yesterday that the tunnel was all completed except

for a thin crust of earth at the end.  When our enemies break through


"Listen!" whispered Ozma.  "I think we can hear what they are saying."



So they kept still and listened.



"Is all ready?" demanded the First and Foremost, haughtily.



"The tunnel is finally completed," replied General Guph.



"How long will it take us to march to the Emerald City?" asked the

Grand Gallipoot of the Growleywogs.



"If we start at midnight," replied the Nome King, "we shall arrive at

the Emerald City by daybreak.  Then, while all the Oz people are

sleeping, we will capture them and make them our slaves.  After that we

will destroy the city itself and march through the Land of Oz, burning

and devastating as we go."



"Good!" cried the First and Foremost.  "When we get through with Oz it

will be a desert wilderness.  Ozma shall be my slave."



"She shall be MY slave!" shouted the Grand Gallipoot, angrily.



"We'll decide that by and by," said King Roquat hastily.  "Don't let us

quarrel now, friends.  First let us conquer Oz, and then we will divide

the spoils of war in a satisfactory manner."



The First and Foremost smiled wickedly; but he only said:



"I and my Phanfasms go first, for nothing on earth can oppose our

power."



They all agreed to that, knowing the Phanfasms to be the mightiest of

the combined forces.  King Roquat now invited them to attend a banquet

he had prepared, where they might occupy themselves in eating and

drinking until midnight arrived.



As they had now seen and heard all of the plot against them that they

cared to, Ozma allowed her Magic Picture to fade away.  Then she turned

to her friends and said:



"Our enemies will be here sooner than I expected.  What do you advise

me to do?"



"It is now too late to assemble our people," said the Tin Woodman,

despondently.  "If you had allowed me to arm and drill my Winkies, we

might have put up a good fight and destroyed many of our enemies before


"Our enemies have not yet arrived," said the Scarecrow, after greeting

affectionately the sweet and girlish Ruler.



"They will soon be here," she said, "for I have just glanced at my

Magic Picture, and have seen them coughing and choking with the dust in

the tunnel."



"Oh, is there dust in the tunnel?" asked the Tin Woodman.



"Yes; Ozma placed it there by means of the Magic Belt," explained the

Scarecrow, with one of his broad smiles.



Then Dorothy came to them, Uncle Henry and Aunt Em following close

after her.  The little girl's eyes were heavy because she had had a

sleepless and anxious night.  Toto walked by her side, but the little

dog's spirits were very much subdued.  Billina, who was always up by

daybreak, was not long in joining the group by the fountain.



The Wizard and the Shaggy Man next arrived, and soon after appeared

Omby Amby, dressed in his best uniform.



"There lies the tunnel," said Ozma, pointing to a part of the ground

just before the Forbidden Fountain, "and in a few moments the dreadful

invaders will break through the earth and swarm over the land.  Let us

all stand on the other side of the Fountain and watch to see what

happens."



At once they followed her suggestion and moved around the fountain of

the Water of Oblivion.  There they stood silent and expectant until the

earth beyond gave way with a sudden crash and up leaped the powerful

form of the First and Foremost, followed by all his grim warriors.



As the leader sprang forward his gleaming eyes caught the play of the

fountain and he rushed toward it and drank eagerly of the sparkling

water.  Many of the other Phanfasms drank, too, in order to clear their

dry and dusty throats.  Then they stood around and looked at one

another with simple, wondering smiles.



The First and Foremost saw Ozma and her companions beyond the fountain,

but instead of making an effort to capture her he merely stared at her

in pleased admiration of her beauty--for he had forgotten where he was

