2  Ozma and Dorothy  3  The Mist Maidens  4  The Magic Tent  5  The Magic Stairway  6  Flathead Mountain  7  The Magic Isle  8  Queen Coo-ee-oh  9  Lady Aurex  10  Under Water  11  The Conquest of the Skeezers  12  The Diamond Swan  13  The Alarm Bell  14  Ozma's Counsellors  15  The Great Sorceress  16  The Enchanted Fishes  17  Under the Great Dome  18  The Cleverness of Ervic  19  Red Reera, the Yookoohoo  20  A Puzzling Problem  21  The Three Adepts  22  The Sunken Island  23  The Magic Words  24  Glinda's Triumph          Chapter One    The Call to Duty      Glinda, the good Sorceress of Oz, sat in the grand court of her palace,  surrounded by her maids of honor--a hundred of the most beautiful girls  of the Fairyland of Oz. The palace court was built of rare marbles,  exquisitely polished. Fountains tinkled musically here and there; the  vast colonnade, open to the south, allowed the maidens, as they raised  their heads from their embroideries, to gaze upon a vista of rose-hued  fields and groves of trees bearing fruits or laden with sweet-scented  flowers. At times one of the girls would start a song, the others  joining in the chorus, or one would rise and dance, gracefully swaying  to the music of a harp played by a companion. And then Glinda smiled,  glad to see her maids mixing play with work.    Presently among the fields an object was seen moving, threading the  broad path that led to the castle gate. Some of the girls looked upon  this object enviously; the Sorceress merely gave it a glance and nodded  her stately head as if pleased, for it meant the coming of her friend 
  "Perhaps I shall be in no danger at all," returned Ozma, with a little  laugh. "You mustn't imagine danger, Dorothy, for one should only  imagine nice things, and we do not know that the Skeezers and Flatheads  are wicked people or my enemies. Perhaps they would be good and listen  to reason."    "Dorothy is right, your Majesty," asserted the Sorceress. "It is true  we know nothing of these faraway subjects, except that they intend to  fight one another, and have a certain amount of magic power at their  command. Such folks do not like to submit to interference and they are  more likely to resent your coming among them than to receive you kindly  and graciously, as is your due."    "If you had an army to take with you," added Dorothy, "it wouldn't be  so bad; but there isn't such a thing as an army in all Oz."    "I have one soldier," said Ozma.    "Yes, the soldier with the green whiskers; but he's dreadful 'fraid of  his gun and never loads it. I'm sure he'd run rather than fight. And  one soldier, even if he were brave, couldn't do much against two  hundred and one Flatheads and Skeezers."    "What then, my friends, would you suggest?" inquired Ozma.    "I advise you to send the Wizard of Oz to them, and let him inform them  that it is against the laws of Oz to fight, and that you command them  to settle their differences and become friends," proposed Glinda. "Let  the Wizard tell them they will be punished if they refuse to obey the  commands of the Princess of all the Land of Oz."    Ozma shook her head, to indicate that the advice was not to her  satisfaction.    "If they refuse, what then?" she asked. "I should be obliged to carry  out my threat and punish them, and that would be an unpleasant and  difficult thing to do. I am sure it would be better for me to go  peacefully, without an army and armed only with my authority as Ruler,  and plead with them to obey me. Then, if they prove obstinate I could 
reached as high as the heads of the two girls, neither of whom was very  tall. They were obliged to thread their way in and out, until Dorothy  was afraid they would get lost, and finally they were halted by a  curious thing that barred their further progress. It was a huge web--as  if woven by gigantic spiders--and the delicate, lacy film was fastened  stoutly to the branches of the bushes and continued to the right and  left in the form of a half circle. The threads of this web were of a  brilliant purple color and woven into numerous artistic patterns, but  it reached from the ground to branches above the heads of the girls and  formed a sort of fence that hedged them in.    "It doesn't look very strong, though," said Dorothy. "I wonder if we  couldn't break through." She tried but found the web stronger than it  seemed. All her efforts could not break a single thread.    "We must go back, I think, and try to get around this peculiar web,"  Ozma decided.    So they turned to the right and, following the web found that it seemed  to spread in a regular circle. On and on they went until finally Ozma  said they had returned to the exact spot from which they had started.  "Here is a handkerchief you dropped when we were here before," she said  to Dorothy.    "In that case, they must have built the web behind us, after we walked  into the trap," exclaimed the little girl.    "True," agreed Ozma, "an enemy has tried to imprison us."    "And they did it, too," said Dorothy. "I wonder who it was."    "It's a spider-web, I'm quite sure," returned Ozma, "but it must be the  work of enormous spiders."    "Quite right!" cried a voice behind them. Turning quickly around they  beheld a huge purple spider sitting not two yards away and regarding  them with its small bright eyes.    Then there crawled from the bushes a dozen more great purple spiders,  which saluted the first one and said:    "The web is finished, O King, and the strangers are our prisoners." 
  The Magic Tent      "Well," said Dorothy with a laugh, "that was easier than I expected.  It's worth while, sometimes, to be a real fairy. But I wouldn't like to  be that kind, and live in a dreadful fog all the time."    They now climbed the bank and found before them a delightful plain that  spread for miles in all directions. Fragrant wild flowers were  scattered throughout the grass; there were bushes bearing lovely  blossoms and luscious fruits; now and then a group of stately trees  added to the beauty of the landscape. But there were no dwellings or  signs of life.    The farther side of the plain was bordered by a row of palms, and just  in front of the palms rose a queerly shaped hill that towered above the  plain like a mountain. The sides of this hill were straight up and  down; it was oblong in shape and the top seemed flat and level.    "Oh, ho!" cried Dorothy; "I'll bet that's the mountain Glinda told us  of, where the Flatheads live."    "If it is," replied Ozma, "the Lake of the Skeezers must be just beyond  the line of palm trees. Can you walk that far, Dorothy?"    "Of course, in time," was the prompt answer. "I'm sorry we had to leave  the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon behind us, for they'd come in handy just  now; but with the end of our journey in sight a tramp across these  pretty green fields won't tire us a bit."    It was a longer tramp than they suspected, however, and night overtook  them before they could reach the flat mountain. So Ozma proposed they  camp for the night and Dorothy was quite ready to approve. She didn't  like to admit to her friend she was tired, but she told herself that  her legs "had prickers in 'em," meaning they had begun to ache.    Usually when Dorothy started on a journey of exploration or adventure,  she carried with her a basket of food, and other things that a traveler  in a strange country might require, but to go away with Ozma was quite  
the top of the flight five stairs leading straight down again. Again  the passage turned abruptly, this time to the left, and ten more stairs  led upward.    The passage was now quite dark, for they were in the heart of the  mountain and all daylight had been shut out by the turns of the  passage. However, Ozma drew her silver wand from her bosom and the  great jewel at its end gave out a lustrous, green-tinted light which  lighted the place well enough for them to see their way plainly.    Ten steps up, five steps down, and a turn, this way or that. That was  the program, and Dorothy figured that they were only gaining five  stairs upward each trip that they made.    "Those Flatheads must be funny people," she said to Ozma. "They don't  seem to do anything in a bold straightforward manner. In making this  passage they forced everyone to walk three times as far as is  necessary. And of course this trip is just as tiresome to the Flatheads  as it is to other folks."    "That is true," answered Ozma; "yet it is a clever arrangement to  prevent their being surprised by intruders. Every time we reach the  tenth step of a flight, the pressure of our feet on the stone makes a  bell ring on top of the mountain, to warn the Flatheads of our coming."    "How do you know that?" demanded Dorothy, astonished.    "I've heard the bell ever since we started," Ozma told her. "You could  not hear it, I know, but when I am holding my wand in my hand I can  hear sounds a great distance off."    "Do you hear anything on top of the mountain 'cept the bell?" inquired  Dorothy.    "Yes. The people are calling to one another in alarm and many footsteps  are approaching the place where we will reach the flat top of the  mountain."    This made Dorothy feel somewhat anxious. "I'd thought we were going to  visit just common, ordinary people," she remarked, "but they're pretty  clever, it seems, and they know some kinds of magic, too. They may be 
"Now, my wife, Rora Flathead, having four cans of brains, had become a  wonderful witch, and fish being brain food, she loved to eat fish  better than any one of us. So she vowed she would destroy every fish in  the lake, unless the Skeezers let us catch what we wanted. They defied  us, so Rora prepared a kettleful of magic poison and went down to the  lake one night to dump it all in the water and poison the fish. It was  a clever idea, quite worthy of my dear wife, but the Skeezer Queen--a  young lady named Coo-ee-oh--hid on the bank of the lake and taking Rora  unawares, transformed her into a Golden Pig. The poison was spilled on  the ground and wicked Queen Coo-ee-oh, not content with her cruel  transformation, even took away my wife's four cans of brains, so she is  now a common grunting pig without even brains enough to know her own  name."    "Then," said Ozma thoughtfully, "the Queen of the Skeezers must be a  Sorceress."    "Yes," said the Su-dic, "but she doesn't know much magic, after all.  She is not as powerful as Rora Flathead was, nor half as powerful as I  am now, as Queen Coo-ee-oh will discover when we fight our great battle  and destroy her."    "The Golden Pig can't be a witch any more, of course," observed Dorothy.    "No; even had Queen Coo-ee-oh left her the four cans of brains, poor  Rora, in a pig's shape, couldn't do any witchcraft. A witch has to use  her fingers, and a pig has only cloven hoofs."    "It seems a sad story," was Ozma's comment, "and all the trouble arose  because the Flatheads wanted fish that did not belong to them."    "As for that," said the Su-dic, again angry, "I made a law that any of  my people could catch fish in the Lake of the Skeezers, whenever they  wanted to. So the trouble was through the Skeezers defying my law."    "You can only make laws to govern your own people," asserted Ozma  sternly. "I, alone, am empowered to make laws that must be obeyed by  all the peoples of Oz." 
followed after. Before Ozma had taken three steps she halted and so  forced Dorothy to halt, for the bridge was again moving and returning  to the island.    "We need not walk after all," said Ozma. So they stood still in their  places and let the steel bridge draw them onward. Indeed, the bridge  drew them well into the glass-domed building which covered the island,  and soon they found themselves standing in a marble room where two  handsomely dressed young men stood on a platform to receive them.    Ozma at once stepped from the end of the bridge to the marble platform,  followed by Dorothy, and then the bridge disappeared with a slight  clang of steel and a marble slab covered the opening from which it had  emerged.    The two young men bowed profoundly to Ozma, and one of them said:    "Queen Coo-ee-oh bids you welcome, O Strangers. Her Majesty is waiting  to receive you in her palace."    "Lead on," replied Ozma with dignity.    But instead of "leading on," the platform of marble began to rise,  carrying them upward through a square hole above which just fitted it.  A moment later they found themselves within the great glass dome that  covered almost all of the island.    Within this dome was a little village, with houses, streets, gardens  and parks. The houses were of colored marbles, prettily designed, with  many stained-glass windows, and the streets and gardens seemed well  cared for. Exactly under the center of the lofty dome was a small park  filled with brilliant flowers, with an elaborate fountain, and facing  this park stood a building larger and more imposing than the others.  Toward this building the young men escorted Ozma and Dorothy.    On the streets and in the doorways or open windows of the houses were  men, women and children, all richly dressed. These were much like other  people in different parts of the Land of Oz, except that instead of  seeming merry and contented they all wore expressions of much solemnity  or of nervous irritation. They had beautiful homes, splendid clothes,  and ample food, but Dorothy at once decided something was wrong with 
all her witchcraft, cannot hear one word we speak within the magic  circle I have made," replied Ozma. "We may now speak freely and as  loudly as we wish, without fear of the Queen's anger."    Lady Aurex brightened at this.    "Can I trust you?" she asked.    "Ev'rybody trusts Ozma," exclaimed Dorothy. "She is true and honest,  and your wicked Queen will be sorry she insulted the powerful Ruler of  all the Land of Oz."    "The Queen does not know me yet," said Ozma, "but I want you to know  me, Lady Aurex, and I want you to tell me why you, and all the  Skeezers, are unhappy. Do not fear Coo-ee-oh's anger, for she cannot  hear a word we say, I assure you."    Lady Aurex was thoughtful a moment; then she said: "I shall trust you,  Princess Ozma, for I believe you are what you say you are--our supreme  Ruler. If you knew the dreadful punishments our Queen inflicts upon us,  you would not wonder we are so unhappy. The Skeezers are not bad  people; they do not care to quarrel and fight, even with their enemies  the Flatheads; but they are so cowed and fearful of Coo-ee-oh that they  obey her slightest word, rather than suffer her anger."    "Hasn't she any heart, then?" asked Dorothy.    "She never displays mercy. She loves no one but herself," asserted Lady  Aurex, but she trembled as she said it, as if afraid even yet of her  terrible Queen.    "That's pretty bad," said Dorothy, shaking her head gravely. "I see  you've a lot to do here, Ozma, in this forsaken corner of the Land of  Oz. First place, you've got to take the magic away from Queen  Coo-ee-oh, and from that awful Su-dic, too. My idea is that neither of  them is fit to rule anybody, 'cause they're cruel and hateful. So  you'll have to give the Skeezers and Flatheads new rulers and teach all  their people that they're part of the Land of Oz and must obey, above  all, the lawful Ruler, Ozma of Oz. Then, when you've done that, we can  go back home again." 
Lady Aurex led them to a window which faced the side of the great dome  which covered all the village, and they could see that the island was  indeed sinking, for the water of the lake was already half way up the  side of the dome. Through the glass could be seen swimming fishes, and  tall stalks of swaying seaweeds, for the water was clear as crystal and  through it they could distinguish even the farther shore of the lake.    "The Flatheads are not here yet," said Lady Aurex. "They will come  soon, but not until all of this dome is under the surface of the water."    "Won't the dome leak?" Dorothy inquired anxiously.    "No, indeed."    "Was the island ever sub-sub-sunk before?"    "Oh, yes; on several occasions. But Coo-ee-oh doesn't care to do that  often, for it requires a lot of hard work to operate the machinery. The  dome was built so that the island could disappear. I think," she  continued, "that our Queen fears the Flatheads will attack the island  and try to break the glass of the dome."    "Well, if we're under water, they can't fight us, and we can't fight  them," asserted Dorothy.    "They could kill the fishes, however," said Ozma gravely.    "We have ways to fight, also, even though our island is under water,"  claimed Lady Aurex. "I cannot tell you all our secrets, but this island  is full of surprises. Also our Queen's magic is astonishing."    "Did she steal it all from the three Adepts in Sorcery that are now  fishes?"    "She stole the knowledge and the magic tools, but she has used them as  the three Adepts never would have done."    By this time the top of the dome was quite under water and suddenly the  island stopped sinking and became stationary.    "See!" cried Lady Aurex, pointing to the shore. "The Flatheads have  come."    On the bank, which was now far above their heads, a crowd of dark  figures could be seen.    "Now let us see what Coo-ee-oh will do to oppose them," continued Lady 
Coo-ee-oh could not or would not help them. The former Queen had no  further thought for her island, her people, or her wonderful magic; she  was only intent on admiring her own beauty.    "Truly," said Ervic, in a gloomy voice, "the Flatheads have conquered  us!"    *     *     *     *     *    Some of these events had been witnessed by Ozma and Dorothy and Lady  Aurex, who had left the house and gone close to the glass of the dome,  in order to see what was going on. Many of the Skeezers had also  crowded against the dome, wondering what would happen next. Although  their vision was to an extent blurred by the water and the necessity of  looking upward at an angle, they had observed the main points of the  drama enacted above. They saw Queen Coo-ee-oh's submarine come to the  surface and open; they saw the Queen standing erect to throw her magic  rope; they saw her sudden transformation into a Diamond Swan, and a cry  of amazement went up from the Skeezers inside the dome.    "Good!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I hate that old Su-dic, but I'm glad  Coo-ee-oh is punished."    "This is a dreadful misfortune!" cried Lady Aurex, pressing her hands  upon her heart.    "Yes," agreed Ozma, nodding her head thoughtfully; "Coo-ee-oh's  misfortune will prove a terrible blow to her people."    "What do you mean by that?" asked Dorothy in surprise. "Seems to me the  Skeezers are in luck to lose their cruel Queen."    "If that were all you would be right," responded Lady Aurex; "and if  the island were above water it would not be so serious. But here we all  are, at the bottom of the lake, and fast prisoners in this dome."    "Can't you raise the island?" inquired Dorothy.    "No. Only Coo-ee-oh knew how to do that," was the answer.    "We can try," insisted Dorothy. "If it can be made to go down, it can  be made to come up. The machinery is still here, I suppose. 
  "No, dear. Did you discover the three fishes?"    "Not yet. But there isn't anything better for me to do, Ozma, so I  guess I'll go back and watch again."          Chapter Thirteen    The Alarm Bell      Glinda, the Good, in her palace in the Quadling Country, had many  things to occupy her mind, for not only did she look after the weaving  and embroidery of her bevy of maids, and assist all those who came to  her to implore her help--beasts and birds as well as people--but she  was a close student of the arts of sorcery and spent much time in her  Magical Laboratory, where she strove to find a remedy for every evil  and to perfect her skill in magic.    Nevertheless, she did not forget to look in the Great Book of Records  each day to see if any mention was made of the visit of Ozma and  Dorothy to the Enchanted Mountain of the Flatheads and the Magic Isle  of the Skeezers. The Records told her that Ozma had arrived at the  mountain, that she had escaped, with her companion, and gone to the  island of the Skeezers, and that Queen Coo-ee-oh had submerged the  island so that it was entirely under water. Then came the statement  that the Flatheads had come to the lake to poison the fishes and that  their Supreme Dictator had transformed Queen Coo-ee-oh into a swan.    No other details were given in the Great Book and so Glinda did not  know that since Coo-ee-oh had forgotten her magic none of the Skeezers  knew how to raise the island to the surface again. So Glinda was not  worried about Ozma and Dorothy until one morning, while she sat with  her maids, there came a sudden clang of the great alarm bell. This was  so unusual that every maid gave a start and even the Sorceress for a  moment could not think what the alarm meant.    Then she remembered the ring she had given Dorothy when she left the  palace to start on her venture. In giving the ring Glinda had warned  
bald head was as shiny as if it had been varnished; there was always a  merry twinkle in his eyes and he was as spry as a schoolboy.  Dorothy  says the reason the Wizard is not as powerful as Glinda is because  Glinda didn't teach him all she knows, but what the Wizard knows he  knows very well and so he performs some very remarkable magic. The ten  I have mentioned assembled, with the Scarecrow and Glinda, in Ozma's  throne room, right after dinner that evening, and the Sorceress told  them all she knew of the plight of Ozma and Dorothy.    "Of course we must rescue them," she continued, "and the sooner they  are rescued the better pleased they will be; but what we must now  determine is how they can be saved. That is why I have called you  together in council."    "The easiest way," remarked the Shaggy Man, "is to raise the sunken  island of the Skeezers to the top of the water again."    "Tell me how?" said Glinda.    "I don't know how, your Highness, for I have never raised a sunken  island."    "We might all get under it and lift," suggested Professor Wogglebug.    "How can we get under it when it rests on the bottom of the lake?"  asked the Sorceress.    "Couldn't we throw a rope around it and pull it ashore?" inquired Jack  Pumpkinhead.    "Why not pump the water out of the lake?" suggested the Patchwork Girl  with a laugh.    "Do be sensible!" pleaded Glinda. "This is a serious matter, and we  must give it serious thought."    "How big is the lake and how big is the island?" was the Frogman's  question.    "None of us can tell, for we have not been there."    "In that case," said the Scarecrow, "it appears to me we ought to go to  the Skeezer country and examine it carefully."    "Quite right," agreed the Tin Woodman.    "We-will-have-to-go-there-any-how," remarked Tik-Tok in his jerky  machine voice.    "The question is which of us shall go, and how many of us?" said the 
reflected a part of the forest, and there, beneath a wide-spreading  tree, Button Bright was lying asleep. On one side of him crouched a  tiger, ready to spring; on the other side was a big gray wolf, its  bared fangs glistening in a wicked way.    "Goodness me!" cried Trot, looking over Glinda's shoulder. "They'll  catch and kill him sure."    Everyone crowded around for a glimpse at the magic mirror.    "Pretty bad--pretty bad!" said the Scarecrow sorrowfully.    "Comes of getting lost!" said Cap'n Bill, sighing.    "Guess he's a goner!" said the Frogman, wiping his eyes on his purple  silk handkerchief.    "But where is he?  Can't we save him?" asked Ojo the Lucky.    "If we knew where he is we could probably save him," replied the little  Wizard, "but that tree looks so much like all the other trees, that we  can't tell whether it's far away or near by."    "Look at Glinda!" exclaimed Betsy    Glinda, having handed the mirror to the Wizard, had stepped aside and  was making strange passes with her outstretched arms and reciting in  low, sweet tones a mystical incantation. Most of them watched the  Sorceress with anxious eyes, despair giving way to the hope that she  might be able to save their friend. The Wizard, however, watched the  scene in the mirror, while over his shoulders peered Trot, the  Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man.    What they saw was more strange than Glinda's actions. The tiger started  to spring on the sleeping boy, but suddenly lost its power to move and  lay flat upon the ground. The gray wolf seemed unable to lift its feet  from the ground. It pulled first at one leg and then at another, and  finding itself strangely confined to the spot began to back and snarl  angrily. They couldn't hear the barkings and snarls, but they could see  the creature's mouth open and its thick lips move. Button Bright,  however, being but a few feet away from the wolf, heard its cries of  rage, which wakened him from his untroubled sleep. The boy sat up and  looked first at the tiger and then at the wolf. His face showed that 
the roadside a pretty little cottage, painted purple with white  trimmings. It was a lonely place--no other buildings were anywhere  about and the ground was not tilled at all. No farmer lived here, that  was certain. Who would care to dwell in such an isolated place?    But Ervic did not bother his head long with such questions. He went up  to the gate that led to the cottage, set the copper kettle carefully  down and bending over it asked:    "What next?"          Chapter Seventeen    Under the Great Dome      When Glinda the Good and her followers of the Rescue Expedition came in  sight of the Enchanted Mountain of the Flatheads, it was away to the  left of them, for the route they had taken through the Great Forest was  some distance from that followed by Ozma and Dorothy.    They halted awhile to decide whether they should call upon the Supreme  Dictator first, or go on to the Lake of the Skeezers.    "If we go to the mountain," said the Wizard, "we may get into trouble  with that wicked Su-dic, and then we would be delayed in rescuing Ozma  and Dorothy. So I think our best plan will be to go to the Skeezer  Country, raise the sunken island and save our friends and the  imprisoned Skeezers. Afterward we can visit the mountain and punish the  cruel magician of the Flatheads."    "That is sensible," approved the Shaggy Man. "I quite agree with you."    The others, too, seemed to think the Wizard's plan the best, and Glinda  herself commended it, so on they marched toward the line of palm trees  that hid the Skeezers' lake from view.    Pretty soon they came to the palms. These were set closely together,  the branches, which came quite to the ground, being so tightly  interlaced that even the Glass Cat could scarcely find a place to  squeeze through. The path which the Flatheads used was some distance  away.    "Here's a job for the Tin Woodman," said the Scarecrow.    So the Tin Woodman, who was always glad to be of use, set to work with 
come out again, and I could bring Ozma and Dorothy back with me."    "And leave all of our people still imprisoned?" asked one of the  Skeezers reproachfully.    "By making several trips in the boat, Glinda could fetch all your  people to the shore," replied the Wizard.    "But what could they do then?" inquired another Skeezer. "They would  have no homes and no place to go, and would be at the mercy of their  enemies, the Flatheads."    "That is true," said Glinda the Good. "And as these people are Ozma's  subjects, I think she would refuse to escape with Dorothy and leave the  others behind, or to abandon the island which is the lawful home of the  Skeezers. I believe the best plan will be to summon the three fishes  and learn from them how to raise the island."    The little Wizard seemed to think that this was rather a forlorn hope.    "How will you summon them," he asked the lovely Sorceress, "and how can  they hear you?"    "That is something we must consider carefully," responded stately  Glinda, with a serene smile.  "I think I can find a way."    All of Ozma's counsellors applauded this sentiment, for they knew well  the powers of the Sorceress.    "Very well," agreed the Wizard. "Summon them, most noble Glinda."          Chapter Eighteen    The Cleverness of Ervic      We must now return to Ervic the Skeezer, who, when he had set down the  copper kettle containing the three fishes at the gate of the lonely  cottage, had asked, "What next?"    The goldfish stuck its head above the water in the kettle and said in  its small but distinct voice:    "You are to lift the latch, open the door, and walk boldly into the  cottage. Do not be afraid of anything you see, for however you seem to  be threatened with dangers, nothing can harm you. The cottage is the  home of a powerful Yookoohoo, named Reera the Red, who assumes all  sorts of forms, sometimes changing her form several times in a day, 
  "I prefer to stay here," said Ervic.    "In another person's home, where you are not wanted?"    "Yes."    "Is not your curiosity yet satisfied?" demanded Reera, with a smile.    "I don't know. Is there anything else you can do?"    "Many things. But why should I exhibit my powers to a stranger?"    "I can think of no reason at all," he replied.    She looked at him curiously.    "You want no power for yourself, you say, and you're too stupid to be  able to steal my secrets. This isn't a pretty cottage, while outside  are sunshine, broad prairies and beautiful wildflowers. Yet you insist  on sitting on that bench and annoying me with your unwelcome presence.  What have you in that kettle?"    "Three fishes," he answered readily.    "Where did you get them?"    "I caught them in the Lake of the Skeezers."    "What do you intend to do with the fishes?"    "I shall carry them to the home of a friend of mine who has three  children. The children will love to have the fishes for pets."    She came over to the bench and looked into the kettle, where the three  fishes were swimming quietly in the water.    "They're pretty," said Reera. "Let me transform them into something  else."    "No," objected the Skeezer.    "I love to transform things; it's so interesting. And I've never  transformed any fishes in all my life."    "Let them alone," said Ervic.    "What shapes would you prefer them to have? I can make them turtles, or  cute little sea-horses; or I could make them piglets, or rabbits, or  guinea-pigs; or, if you like I can make chickens of them, or eagles, or  bluejays."    "Let them alone!" repeated Ervic.    "You're not a very pleasant visitor," laughed Red Reera. "People accuse  me of being cross and crabbed and unsociable, and they are quite right.  If you had come here pleading and begging for favors, and half afraid  of my Yookoohoo magic, I'd have abused you until you ran away; but 
transformed into three tall and slender young women, with fine,  intelligent faces and clothed in handsome, clinging gowns. The one who  had been a goldfish had beautiful golden hair and blue eyes and was  exceedingly fair of skin; the one who had been a bronzefish had dark  brown hair and clear gray eyes and her complexion matched these lovely  features. The one who had been a silverfish had snow-white hair of the  finest texture and deep brown eyes. The hair contrasted exquisitely  with her pink cheeks and ruby-red lips, nor did it make her look a day  older than her two companions.    As soon as they secured these girlish shapes, all three bowed low to  the Yookoohoo and said:    "We thank you, Reera."    Then they bowed to the Skeezer and said:    "We thank you, Ervic."    "Very good!" cried the Yookoohoo, examining her work with critical  approval. "You are much better and more interesting than fishes, and  this ungracious Skeezer would scarcely allow me to do the  transformations. You surely have nothing to thank him for. But now let  us dine in honor of the occasion."    She clapped her hands together and again a table loaded with food  appeared in the cottage. It was a longer table, this time, and places  were set for the three Adepts as well as for Reera and Ervic.    "Sit down, friends, and eat your fill," said the Yookoohoo, but instead  of seating herself at the head of the table she went to the cupboard,  saying to the Adepts: "Your beauty and grace, my fair friends, quite  outshine my own. So that I may appear properly at the banquet table I  intend, in honor of this occasion, to take upon myself my natural  shape."    Scarcely had she finished this speech when Reera transformed herself  into a young woman fully as lovely as the three Adepts. She was not  quite so tall as they, but her form was more rounded and more  handsomely clothed, with a wonderful jeweled girdle and a necklace of  shining pearls. Her hair was a bright auburn red, and her eyes large  and dark. 
naturally occurred to me that the easiest way to gain admittance would  be by having the boat take us into the basement through the marble door  from which Coo-ee-oh launched it. But there must be other ways to get  inside the Dome and join Ozma and Dorothy, and such ways we must find  by study and the proper use of our powers of magic."    "It won't be easy," declared the Wizard, "for we must not forget that  Ozma herself understands considerable magic, and has doubtless tried to  raise the island or find other means of escape from it and failed."    "That is true," returned Glinda, "but Ozma's magic is fairy magic,  while you are a Wizard and I am a Sorceress. In this way the three of  us have a great variety of magic to work with, and if we should all  fail it will be because the island is raised and lowered by a magic  power none of us is acquainted with. My idea therefore is to seek--by  such magic as we possess--to accomplish our object in another way."    They made the circle of the Dome again in their boat, and once more saw  Ozma and Dorothy through their windows and exchanged signals with the  two imprisoned girls.    Ozma realized that her friends were doing all in their power to rescue  her and smiled an encouragement to their efforts. Dorothy seemed a  little anxious but was trying to be as brave as her companion.    After the boat had returned to the camp and Glinda was seated in her  tent, working out various ways by which Ozma and Dorothy could be  rescued, the Wizard stood on the shore dreamily eying the outlines of  the Great Dome which showed beneath the clear water, when he raised his  eyes and saw a group of strange people approaching from around the  lake. Three were young women of stately presence, very beautifully  dressed, who moved with remarkable grace. They were followed at a  little distance by a good-looking young Skeezer.    The Wizard saw at a glance that these people might be very important,  so he advanced to meet them. The three maidens received him graciously 
Chapter Twenty-Two    The Sunken Island      As soon as they had breakfasted the next morning, Glinda and the Wizard  and the three Adepts went down to the shore of the lake and formed a  line with their faces toward the submerged island. All the others came  to watch them, but stood at a respectful distance in the background.    At the right of the Sorceress stood Audah and Aurah, while at the left  stood the Wizard and Aujah. Together they stretched their arms over the  water's edge and in unison the five chanted a rhythmic incantation.    This chant they repeated again and again, swaying their arms gently  from side to side, and in a few minutes the watchers behind them  noticed that the lake had begun to recede from the shore. Before long  the highest point of the dome appeared above the water. Gradually the  water fell, making the dome appear to rise. When it was three or four  feet above the surface Glinda gave the signal to stop, for their work  had been accomplished.    The blackened submarine was now entirely out of water, but Uncle Henry  and Cap'n Bill managed to push it into the lake. Glinda, the Wizard,  Ervic and the Adepts got into the boat, taking with them a coil of  strong rope, and at the command of the Sorceress the craft cleaved its  way through the water toward the part of the Dome which was now visible.    "There's still plenty of water for the fish to swim in," observed the  Wizard as they rode along. "They might like more but I'm sure they can  get along until we have raised the island and can fill up the lake  again."    The boat touched gently on the sloping glass of the Dome, and the  Wizard took some tools from his black bag and quickly removed one large  pane of glass, thus making a hole large enough for their bodies to pass  through. Stout frames of steel supported the glass of the Dome, and  around one of these frames the Wizard tied the end of a rope.    "I'll go down first," said he, "for while I'm not as spry as Cap'n Bill 
and Dorothy's suggestion seems like an inspiration."    The three Adepts also approved the trial but the brown-haired one said:    "We must be careful not to use the wrong word, and send the bridge out  under water. The main thing, if Dorothy's idea is correct, is to hit  upon the one word that moves the island."    "Let us experiment," suggested the Wizard.    In the drawer with the moving gray powder was a tiny golden cup, which  they thought was used for measuring. Glinda filled this cup with the  powder and carefully poured it into the shallow basin, which was the  top of the great steel pillar supporting the island. Then Aurah the  Adept lighted a taper and touched it to the powder, which instantly  glowed fiery red and tumbled about the basin with astonishing energy.  While the grains of powder still glowed red the Sorceress bent over it  and said in a voice of command: "Coo!"    They waited motionless to see what would happen. There was a grating  noise and a whirl of machinery, but the island did not move a particle.    Dorothy rushed to the window, which overlooked the glass side of the  dome.    "The boats!" she exclaimed. "The boats are all loose an' sailing under  water."    "We've made a mistake," said the Wizard gloomily.    "But it's one which shows we are on the right track," declared Aujah  the Adept. "We know now that Coo-ee-oh used the syllables of her name  for the magic words."    "If 'Coo' sends out the boats, it is probable that ee' works the  bridge," suggested Ozma. "So the last part of the name may raise the  island."    "Let us try that next then," proposed the Wizard.    He scraped the embers of the burned powder out of the basin and Glinda  again filled the golden cup from the drawer and placed it on top the  steel pillar. Aurah lighted it with her taper and Ozma bent over the  basin and murmured the long drawn syllable: "Oh-h-h!"    Instantly the island trembled and with a weird groaning noise it moved 
