and I must admit that the main idea in "The Lost Princess of Oz" was

suggested to me by a sweet little girl of eleven who called to see me

and to talk about the Land of Oz. Said she: "I s'pose if Ozma ever got

lost, or stolen, ev'rybody in Oz would be dreadful sorry."



That was all, but quite enough foundation to build this present story

on. If you happen to like the story, give credit to my little friend's

clever hint.



L. Frank Baum

  Royal Historian of Oz









LIST OF CHAPTERS



   1  A Terrible Loss

   2  The Troubles of Glinda the Good

   3  The Robbery of Cayke the Cookie Cook

   4  Among the Winkies

   5  Ozma's Friends Are Perplexed

   6  The Search Party

   7  The Merry-Go-Round Mountains

   8  The Mysterious City

   9  The High Coco-Lorum of Thi

  10  Toto Loses Something

  11  Button-Bright Loses Himself

  12  The Czarover of Herku

  13  The Truth Pond

  14  The Unhappy Ferryman

  15  The Big Lavender Bear

  16  The Little Pink Bear

  17  The Meeting

  18  The Conference

  19  Ugu the Shoemaker

  20  More Surprises

  21  Magic Against Magic

  22  In the Wicker Castle

  23  The Defiance of Ugu the Shoemaker

  24  The Little Pink Bear Speaks Truly

  25  Ozma of Oz

  26  Dorothy Forgives









THE LOST PRINCESS



BY L. FRANK BAUM







CHAPTER 1



A TERRIBLE LOSS





There could be no doubt of the fact: Princess Ozma, the lovely girl

was so heavy that three men could scarcely have lifted it.  Yet this

morning when Glinda entered her drawing room after breakfast, the good

Sorceress was amazed to discover that her Great Book of Records had

mysteriously disappeared.



Advancing to the table, she found the chains had been cut with some

sharp instrument, and this must have been done while all in the castle

slept. Glinda was shocked and grieved.  Who could have done this

wicked, bold thing?  And who could wish to deprive her of her Great

Book of Records?



The Sorceress was thoughtful for a time, considering the consequences

of her loss.  Then she went to her Room of Magic to prepare a charm

that would tell her who had stolen the Record Book.  But when she

unlocked her cupboard and threw open the doors, all of her magical

instruments and rare chemical compounds had been removed from the

shelves.  The Sorceress has now both angry and alarmed.  She sat down

in a chair and tried to think how this extraordinary robbery could have

taken place.  It was evident that the thief was some person of very

great power, or the theft could not have been accomplished without her

knowledge. But who, in all the Land of Oz, was powerful and skillful

enough to do this awful thing?  And who, having the power, could also

have an object in defying the wisest and most talented Sorceress the

world has ever known?



Glinda thought over the perplexing matter for a full hour, at the end

of which time she was still puzzled how to explain it.  But although

her instruments and chemicals were gone, her KNOWLEDGE of magic had not

been stolen, by any means, since no thief, however skillful, can rob

one of knowledge, and that is why knowledge is the best and safest

treasure to acquire.  Glinda believed that when she had time to gather

more magical herbs and elixirs and to manufacture more magical

instruments, she would be able to discover who the robber was and what

had become of her precious Book of Records.



"Whoever has done this," she said to her maidens, "is a very foolish

followed them he would not tear his splendid clothes. Cayke, too, was

wearing her best dress and was likewise afraid of the thorns and

prickers, so she kept behind the Frogman.



They made rather slow progress and night overtook them before they were

halfway down the mountainside, so they found a cave in which they

sought shelter until morning.  Cayke had brought along a basket full of

her famous cookies, so they all had plenty to eat.  On the second day

the Yips began to wish they had not embarked on this adventure. They

grumbled a good deal at having to cut away the thorns to make the path

for the Frogman and the Cookie Cook, for their own clothing suffered

many tears, while Cayke and the Frogman traveled safely and in comfort.



"If it is true that anyone came to our country to steal your diamond

dishpan," said one of the Yips to Cayke, "it must have been a bird, for

no person in the form of a man, woman or child could have climbed

through these bushes and back again."



"And, allowing he could have done so," said another Yip, "the

diamond-studded gold dishpan would not have repaid him for his troubles

and his tribulations."



"For my part," remarked a third Yip, "I would rather go back home and

dig and polish some more diamonds and mine some more gold and make you

another dishpan than be scratched from head to heel by these dreadful

bushes.  Even now, if my mother saw me, she would not know I am her

son."



Cayke paid no heed to these mutterings, nor did the Frogman.  Although

their journey was slow, it was being made easy for them by the Yips, so

they had nothing to complain of and no desire to turn back.  Quite near

to the bottom of the great hill they came upon a great gulf, the sides

of which were as smooth as glass.  The gulf extended a long

distance--as far as they could see in either direction--and although it

was not very wide, it was far too wide for the Yips to leap across it.



"Goodness me!" exclaimed Dorothy in alarm.  "This is the biggest steal

I ever heard of.  Who do you think did it, Wizard?"



"I've no idea," he answered.  "But I have come to get my own bag of

magic tools and carry them to Glinda.  She is so much more powerful

than I that she may be able to discover the truth by means of my magic

quicker and better than I could myself."



"Hurry, then," said Dorothy, "for we've all gotten terr'bly worried."



The Wizard rushed away to his rooms but presently came back with a

long, sad face.  "It's gone!" he said.



"What's gone?" asked Scraps.



"My black bag of magic tools. Someone must have stolen it!"



They looked at one another in amazement.



"This thing is getting desperate," continued the Wizard. "All the magic

that belongs to Ozma or to Glinda or to me has been stolen."



"Do you suppose Ozma could have taken them, herself, for some purpose?"

asked Betsy.



"No indeed," declared the Wizard.  "I suspect some enemy has stolen

Ozma and for fear we would follow and recapture her has taken all our

magic away from us."



"How dreadful!" cried Dorothy. "The idea of anyone wanting to injure

our dear Ozma!  Can't we do ANYthing to find her, Wizard?"



"I'll ask Glinda.  I must go straight back to her and tell her that my

magic tools have also disappeared.  The good Sorceress will be greatly

shocked, I know."



With this, he jumped upon the back of the Sawhorse again, and the

quaint steed, which never tired, dashed away at full speed.  The three

girls were very much disturbed in mind.  Even the Patchwork Girl seemed

to realize that a great calamity had overtaken them all.  Ozma was a

fairy of considerable power, and all the creatures in Oz as well as the

three mortal girls from the outside world looked upon her as their

protector and friend.  The idea of their beautiful girl Ruler's being


them success, for all were grieved over Ozma's loss and anxious that

she be found again.  First came the Cowardly Lion, then the Patchwork

Girl riding upon the Woozy, then Betsy Bobbin on her mule Hank, and

finally the Sawhorse drawing the Red Wagon, in which were seated the

Wizard and Dorothy and Button-Bright and Trot.  No one was obliged to

drive the Sawhorse, so there were no reins to his harness; one had only

to tell him which way to go, fast or slow, and he understood perfectly.



It was about this time that a shaggy little black dog who had been

lying asleep in Dorothy's room in the palace woke up and discovered he

was lonesome.  Everything seemed very still throughout the great

building, and Toto--that was the little dog's name--missed the

customary chatter of the three girls.  He never paid much attention to

what was going on around him, and although he could speak, he seldom

said anything, so the little dog did not know about Ozma's loss or that

everyone had gone in search of her.  But he liked to be with people,

and especially with his own mistress, Dorothy, and having yawned and

stretched himself and found the door of the room ajar, he trotted out

into the corridor and went down the stately marble stairs to the hall

of the palace, where he met Jellia Jamb.



"Where's Dorothy?" asked Toto.



"She's gone to the Winkie Country," answered the maid.



"When?"



"A little while ago," replied Jellia.



Toto turned and trotted out into the palace garden and down the long

driveway until he came to the streets of the Emerald City.  Here he

paused to listen, and hearing sounds of cheering, he ran swiftly along

until he came in sight of the Red Wagon and the Woozy and the Lion and

the Mule and all the others.  Being a wise little dog, he decided not

to show himself to Dorothy just then, lest he be sent back home, but he

never lost sight of the party of travelers, all of whom were so eager

to get ahead that they never thought to look behind them.  When they

"That?  Oh, that's just the Magic Belt I once captured from the Nome

King," she replied.



"A Magic Belt!   Why, that's fine.  I'm sure a Magic Belt would take

you over these hills."



"It might if I knew how to work it," said the little girl.  "Ozma knows

a lot of its magic, but I've never found out about it.  All I know is

that while I am wearing it, nothing can hurt me."



"Try wishing yourself across and see if it will obey you," suggested

the Wizard.



"But what good would that do?" asked Dorothy.  "If I got across, it

wouldn't help the rest of you, and I couldn't go alone among all those

giants and dragons while you stayed here."



"True enough," agreed the Wizard sadly.  And then, after looking around

the group, he inquired, "What is that on your finger, Trot?"



"A ring.  The Mermaids gave it to me," she explained, "and if ever I'm

in trouble when I'm on the water, I can call the Mermaids and they'll

come and help me.  But the Mermaids can't help me on the land, you

know, 'cause they swim, and--and--they haven't any legs."



"True enough," repeated the Wizard, more sadly.



There was a big, broad, spreading tree near the edge of the gulf, and

as the sun was hot above them, they all gathered under the shade of the

tree to study the problem of what to do next.  "If we had a long rope,"

said Betsy, "we could fasten it to this tree and let the other end of

it down into the gulf and all slide down it."



"Well, what then?" asked the Wizard.



"Then, if we could manage to throw the rope up the other side,"

explained the girl, "we could all climb it and be on the other side of

the gulf."



"There are too many 'if's' in that suggestion," remarked the little

Wizard.  "And you must remember that the other side is nothing but

spinning mountains, so we couldn't possibly fasten a rope to them, even

to the walls, the breeze carried to their ears the sound of music--dim

at first, but growing louder as they advanced.



"That doesn't seem like a very terr'ble place," remarked Dorothy.



"Well, it LOOKS all right," replied Trot from her seat on the Woozy,

"but looks can't always be trusted."



"MY looks can," said Scraps.  "I LOOK patchwork, and I AM patchwork,

and no one but a blind owl could ever doubt that I'm the Patchwork

Girl."  Saying which, she turned a somersault off the Woozy and,

alighting on her feet, began wildly dancing about.



"Are owls ever blind?" asked Trot.



"Always, in the daytime," said Button-Bright.   "But Scraps can see

with her button eyes both day and night.  Isn't it queer?"



"It's queer that buttons can see at all," answered Trot.  "But good

gracious!  What's become of the city?"



"I was going to ask that myself," said Dorothy. "It's gone!"



"It's gone!"



The animals came to a sudden halt, for the city had really disappeared,

walls and all, and before them lay the clear, unbroken sweep of the

country.  "Dear me!" exclaimed the Wizard.  "This is rather

disagreeable.  It is annoying to travel almost to a place and then find

it is not there."



"Where can it be, then?" asked Dorothy.  "It cert'nly was there a

minute ago."



"I can hear the music yet," declared Button-Bright, and when they all

listened, the strains of music could plainly be heard.



"Oh!  There's the city over at the left," called Scraps, and turning

their eyes, they saw the walls and towers and fluttering banners far to

the left of them.



"We must have lost our way," suggested Dorothy.



"Nonsense," said the Lion.



"I, and all the other animals, have been tramping straight toward the

city ever since we first saw it."



"Then how does it happen--"



"Never mind," interrupted the Wizard, "we are no farther from it than

we were before.  It is in a different direction, that's all, so let us

"Nothing like it," said Scraps.  "It's a make-believe.  You see it, but

it isn't.  Come on into the city; we've been wasting our time."



With this, she danced into the wall again and once more disappeared.

Button-Bright, who was rather venture-some, dashed away after her and

also became invisible to them.  The others followed more cautiously,

stretching out their hands to feel the wall and finding, to their

astonishment, that they could feel nothing because nothing opposed

them.  They walked on a few steps and found themselves in the streets

of a very beautiful city.  Behind them they again saw the wall, grim

and forbidding as ever, but now they knew it was merely an illusion

prepared to keep strangers from entering the city.



But the wall was soon forgotten, for in front of them were a number of

quaint people who stared at them in amazement as if wondering where

they had come from.  Our friends forgot their good manners for a time

and returned the stares with interest, for so remarkable a people had

never before been discovered in all the remarkable Land of Oz.



Their heads were shaped like diamonds, and their bodies like hearts.

All the hair they had was a little bunch at the tip top of their

diamond-shaped heads, and their eyes were very large and round, and

their noses and mouths very small.  Their clothing was tight fitting

and of brilliant colors, being handsomely embroidered in quaint designs

with gold or silver threads; but on their feet they wore sandals with

no stockings whatever.  The expression of their faces was pleasant

enough, although they now showed surprise at the appearance of

strangers so unlike themselves, and our friends thought they seemed

quite harmless.



"I beg your pardon," said the Wizard, speaking for his party, "for

intruding upon you uninvited, but we are traveling on important

business and find it necessary to visit your city.  Will you kindly

tell us by what name your city is called?"



They looked at one another uncertainly, each expecting some other to

answer.  Finally, a short one whose heart-shaped body was very broad

little worried when their host told them he had ordered a banquet

prepared for them in the City Hall.



"What are we going to eat?" asked Button-Bright suspiciously.



"Thistles," was the reply.  "Fine, fresh thistles, gathered this very

day."



Scraps laughed, for she never ate anything, but Dorothy said in a

protesting voice, "OUR insides are not lined with gold, you know."



"How sad!" exclaimed the High Coco-Lorum, and then he added as an

afterthought, "but we can have the thistles boiled, if you prefer."



"I'm 'fraid they wouldn't taste good even then," said little Trot.

"Haven't you anything else to eat?"



The High Coco-Lorum shook his diamond-shaped head.



"Nothing that I know of," said he.  "But why should we have anything

else when we have so many thistles?  However, if you can't eat what we

eat, don't eat anything.  We shall not be offended, and the banquet

will be just as merry and delightful."



Knowing his companions were all hungry, the Wizard said, "I trust you

will excuse us from the banquet, sir, which will be merry enough

without us, although it is given in our honor.  For, as Ozma is not in

your city, we must leave here at once and seek her elsewhere."



"Sure we must!" Dorothy, and she whispered to Betsy and Trot, "I'd

rather starve somewhere else than in this city, and who knows, we may

run across somebody who eats reg'lar food and will give us some."



So when the ride was finished, in spite of the protests of the High

Coco-Lorum, they insisted on continuing their journey.  "It will soon

be dark," he objected.



"We don't mind the darkness," replied the Wizard.



"Some wandering Herku may get you."



"Do you think the Herkus would hurt us?" asked Dorothy.



"I cannot say, not having had the honor of their acquaintance.  But

they are said to be so strong that if they had any other place to stand

upon they could lift the world."



"All of them together?" asked Button-Bright wonderingly.

the choicest fruit was gathered by the Patchwork Girl from the very

highest limbs and tossed down to the others.  Suddenly, Trot asked,

"Where's Button-Bright?" and when the others looked for him, they found

the boy had disappeared.



"Dear me!" cried Dorothy.  "I guess he's lost again, and that will mean

our waiting here until we can find him."



"It's a good place to wait," suggested Betsy, who had found a plum tree

and was eating some of its fruit.



"How can you wait here and find Button-Bright at one and the same

time?" inquired the Patchwork Girl, hanging by her toes on a limb just

over the heads of the three mortal girls.



"Perhaps he'll come back here," answered Dorothy.



"If he tries that, he'll prob'ly lose his way," said Trot.  "I've known

him to do that lots of times.  It's losing his way that gets him lost."



"Very true," said the Wizard.  "So all the rest of you must stay here

while I go look for the boy."



"Won't YOU get lost, too?" asked Betsy.



"I hope not, my dear."



"Let ME go," said Scraps, dropping lightly to the ground.  "I can't get

lost, and I'm more likely to find Button-Bright than any of you."

Without waiting for permission, she darted away through the trees and

soon disappeared from their view.



"Dorothy," said Toto, squatting beside his little mistress, "I've lost

my growl."



"How did that happen?" she asked.



"I don't know," replied Toto.  "Yesterday morning the Woozy nearly

stepped on me, and I tried to growl at him and found I couldn't growl a

bit."



"Can you bark?" inquired Dorothy.



"Oh, yes indeed."



"Then never mind the growl," said she.



"But what will I do when I get home to the Glass Cat and the Pink

Kitten?" asked the little dog in an anxious tone.



"They won't mind if you can't growl at them, I'm sure," said Dorothy.

"I'm sorry for you, of course, Toto, for it's just those things we

"Do we look like an army of conquest?"



"No," said the first giant who had spoken, "you look like innocent

tramps; but you never can tell by appearances.  Wait here until we

report to our masters.  No one can enter here without the permission of

Vig, the Czarover."



"Who's that?" inquired Dorothy.



But the heads had all bobbed down and disappeared behind the walls, so

there was no answer.  They waited a long time before the gate rolled

back with a rumbling sound, and a loud voice cried, "Enter!"  But they

lost no time in taking advantage of the invitation.



On either side of the broad street that led into the city from the gate

stood a row of huge giants, twenty of them on a side and all standing

so close together that their elbows touched.  They wore uniforms of

blue and yellow and were armed with clubs as big around as treetrunks.

Each giant had around his neck a broad band of gold, riveted on, to

show he was a slave.



As our friends entered riding upon the Lion, the Woozy, the Sawhorse

and the Mule, the giants half turned and walked in two files on either

side of them, as if escorting them on their way.  It looked to Dorothy

as if all her party had been made prisoners, for even mounted on their

animals their heads scarcely reached to the knees of the marching

giants.  The girls and Button-Bright were anxious to know what sort of

a city they had entered, and what the people were like who had made

these powerful creatures their slaves.  Through the legs of the giants

as they walked, Dorothy could see rows of houses on each side of the

street and throngs of people standing on the sidewalks, but the people

were of ordinary size and the only remarkable thing about them was the

fact that they were dreadfully lean and thin.  Between their skin and

their bones there seemed to be little or no flesh, and they were mostly

stoop-shouldered and weary looking, even to the little children.




yellow house that was surrounded by a yellow picket fence, so he walked

toward this house and on entering the yard found a Winkie woman picking

up sticks with which to build a fire to cook her morning meal.



"For goodness sake!" she exclaimed on seeing the Frogman.  "What are

you doing out of your frog-pond?"



"I am traveling in search of a jeweled gold dishpan, my good woman," he

replied with an air of great dignity.



"You won't find it here, then," said she.  "Our dishpans are tin, and

they're good enough for anybody.  So go back to your pond and leave me

alone."  She spoke rather crossly and with a lack of respect that

greatly annoyed the Frogman.



"Allow me to tell you, madam," said he, "that although I am a frog, I

am the Greatest and Wisest Frog in all the world.  I may add that I

possess much more wisdom than any Winkie--man or woman--in this land.

Wherever I go, people fall on their knees before me and render homage

to the Great Frogman!  No one else knows so much as I; no one else is

so grand, so magnificent!"



"If you know so much," she retorted, "why don't you know where your

dishpan is instead of chasing around the country after it?"



"Presently," he answered, "I am going where it is, but just now I am

traveling and have had no breakfast.  Therefore I honor you by asking

you for something to eat."



"Oho!  The Great Frogman is hungry as any tramp, is he?  Then pick up

these sticks and help me to build the fire," said the woman

contemptuously.



"Me!   The Great Frogman pick up sticks?" he exclaimed in horror.  "In

the Yip Country where I am more honored and powerful than any King

could be, people weep with joy when I ask them to feed me."



"Then that's the place to go for your breakfast," declared the woman.



"I fear you do not realize my importance," urged the Frogman.

"Exceeding wisdom renders me superior to menial duties."



"He speaks the same words that I do and in the same way," declared

Cayke.



"Perhaps," replied the ferryman, "but to me his voice sounded like a

frog's croak.  I know that in the Land of Oz animals can speak our

language, and so can the birds and bugs and fishes; but in MY ears,

they sound merely like growls and chirps and croaks."



"Why is that?" asked the Cookie Cook in surprise.



"Once, many years ago, I cut the tail off a fox which had taunted me,

and I stole some birds' eggs from a nest to make an omelet with, and

also I pulled a fish from the river and left it lying on the bank to

gasp for lack of water until it died.  I don't know why I did those

wicked things, but I did them.  So the Emperor of the Winkies--who is

the Tin Woodman and has a very tender tin heart--punished me by denying

me any communication with beasts, birds or fishes.  I cannot understand

them when they speak to me, although I know that other people can do

so, nor can the creatures understand a word I say to them.  Every time

I meet one of them, I am reminded of my former cruelty, and it makes me

very unhappy."



"Really," said Cayke, "I'm sorry for you, although the Tin Woodman is

not to blame for punishing you."



"What is he mumbling about?" asked the Frogman.



"He is talking to me, but you don't understand him," she replied.  And

then she told him of the ferryman's punishment and afterward explained

to the ferryman that they wanted to stay all night with him and be fed.



He gave them some fruit and bread, which was the only sort of food he

had, and he allowed Cayke to sleep in a room of his cottage. But the

Frogman he refused to admit to his house, saying that the frog's

presence made him miserable and unhappy.  At no time would he look

directly at the Frogman, or even toward him, fearing he would shed


It is a pretty dishpan, indeed, though rather big and awkward to

handle.  I hope you will some day find it."



Cayke was grievously disappointed.  She began to cry, wiping her eyes

on her apron.  The King turned to the throng of toy bears surrounding

him and asked, "Has any of you ever seen this golden dishpan before?"



"No," they answered in a chorus.



The King seemed to reflect.  Presently he inquired, "Where is the

Little Pink Bear?"



"At home, Your Majesty," was the reply.



"Fetch him here," commanded the King.



Several of the bears waddled over to one of the trees and pulled from

its hollow a tiny pink bear, smaller than any of the others. A big,

white bear carried the pink one in his arms and set it down beside the

King, arranging the joints of its legs so that it would stand upright.



This Pink Bear seemed lifeless until the King turned a crank which

protruded from its side, when the little creature turned its head

stiffly from side to side and said in a small, shrill voice, "Hurrah

for the King of Bear Center!"



"Very good," said the big Lavender Bear.  "He seems to be working very

well today.  Tell me, my Pink Pinkerton, what has become of this lady's

jeweled dishpan?"



"U-u-u," said the Pink Bear, and then stopped short.



The King turned the crank again.



"U-g-u the Shoemaker has it," said the Pink Bear.



"Who is Ugu the Shoemaker?" demanded the King, again turning the crank.



"A magician who lives on a mountain in a wickerwork castle," was the

reply.



"Where is the mountain?" was the next question.



"Nineteen miles and three furlongs from Bear Center to the northeast."



"And is the dishpan still at the castle of Ugu the Shoemaker?" asked

the King.



"It is."



The King turned to Cayke.



"You may rely on this information," said he.  "The Pink Bear can tell


They regarded the Frogman with much curiosity and interest, and finding

all eyes fixed upon him, the newcomer arranged his necktie and smoothed

his beautiful vest and swung his gold-headed cane like a regular dandy.

The big spectacles over his eyes quite altered his froglike countenance

and gave him a learned and impressive look.  Used as she was to seeing

strange creatures in the Land of Oz, Dorothy was amazed at discovering

the Frogman.  So were all her companions. Toto wanted to growl at him,

but couldn't, and he didn't dare bark.  The Sawhorse snorted rather

contemptuously, but the Lion whispered to the wooden steed, "Bear with

this strange creature, my friend, and remember he is no more

extraordinary than you are.  Indeed, it is more natural for a frog to

be big than for a Sawhorse to be alive."



On being questioned, the Frogman told them the whole story of the loss

of Cayke's highly prized dishpan and their adventures in search of it.

When he came to tell of the Lavender Bear King and of the Little Pink

Bear who could tell anything you wanted to know, his hearers became

eager to see such interesting animals.



"It will be best," said the Wizard, "to unite our two parties and share

our fortunes together, for we are all bound on the same errand, and as

one band we may more easily defy this shoemaker magician than if

separate. Let us be allies."



"I will ask my friends about that," replied the Frogman, and he climbed

over the hill to find Cayke and the toy bears.  The Patchwork Girl

accompanied him, and when they came upon the Cookie Cook and the

Lavender Bear and the Pink Bear, it was hard to tell which of the lot

was the most surprised.



"Mercy me!" cried Cayke, addressing the Patchwork Girl.  "However did

you come alive?"



Scraps stared at the bears.



"Mercy me!" she echoed, "You are stuffed, as I am, with cotton, and you

appear to be living.  That makes me feel ashamed, for I have prided

myself on being the only live cotton-stuffed person in Oz."



"That may not be a wise speech, but it sounds good," said Dorothy

approvingly.  "Ugu the Shoemaker is not only a common man, but he's a

wicked man and a cruel man and deserves to be conquered.  We mustn't

have any mercy on him till Ozma is set free.  So let's go to his castle

as the Frogman says and see what the place looks like."



No one offered any objection to this plan, and so it was adopted. They

broke camp and were about to start on the journey to Ugu's castle when

they discovered that Button-Bright was lost again.  The girls and the

Wizard shouted his name, and the Lion roared and the Donkey brayed and

the Frogman croaked and the Big Lavender Bear growled (to the envy of

Toto, who couldn't growl but barked his loudest), yet none of them

could make Button-Bright hear.  So after vainly searching for the boy a

full hour, they formed a procession and proceeded in the direction of

the wicker castle of Ugu the Shoemaker.



"Button-Bright's always getting lost," said Dorothy.  "And if he wasn't

always getting found again, I'd prob'ly worry.  He may have gone ahead

of us, and he may have gone back, but wherever he is, we'll find him

sometime and somewhere, I'm almost sure."









CHAPTER 19



UGU THE SHOEMAKER





A curious thing about Ugu the Shoemaker was that he didn't suspect in

the least that he was wicked.  He wanted to be powerful and great, and

he hoped to make himself master of all the Land of Oz that he might

compel everyone in that fairy country to obey him, His ambition blinded

him to the rights of others, and he imagined anyone else would act just

as he did if anyone else happened to be as clever as himself.



When he inhabited his little shoemaking shop in the City of Herku, he

had been discontented, for a shoemaker is not looked upon with high

respect, and Ugu knew that his ancestors had been famous magicians for

many centuries past and therefore his family was above the ordinary.



"And wasn't Ozma in it then?"



"There was no one in it but me, and I was sorry it wasn't entirely

empty.  The sides are so steep I can't climb out, so there was nothing

to be done but sleep until someone found me.  Thank you for coming. If

you'll please let down a rope, I'll empty this hole in a hurry."



"How strange!" said Dorothy, greatly disappointed.



"It's evident the Pink Bear didn't tell the truth."



"He never makes a mistake," declared the Lavender Bear King in a tone

that showed his feelings were hurt.  And then he turned the crank of

the little Pink Bear again and asked, "Is this the hole that Ozma of Oz

is in?"



"Yes," answered the Pink Bear.



"That settles it," said the King positively.  "Your Ozma is in this

hole in the ground."



"Don't be silly," returned Dorothy impatiently. "Even your beady eyes

can see there is no one in the hole but Button-Bright."



"Perhaps Button-Bright is Ozma," suggested the King.



"And perhaps he isn't!  Ozma is a girl, and Button-Bright is a boy."



"Your Pink Bear must be out of order," said the Wizard, "for, this time

at least, his machinery has caused him to make an untrue statement."



The Bear King was so angry at this remark that he turned away, holding

the Pink Bear in his paws, and refused to discuss the matter in any

further way.



"At any rate," said the Frogman, "the Pink Bear has led us to your boy

friend and so enabled you to rescue him."



Scraps was leaning so far over the hole trying to find Ozma in it that

suddenly she lost her balance and pitched in head foremost.  She fell

upon Button-Bright and tumbled him over, but he was not hurt by her

soft, stuffed body and only laughed at the mishap.  The Wizard buckled

some straps together and let one end of them down into the hole, and

soon both Scraps and the boy had climbed up and were standing safely



While they were thinking it over, Scraps danced closer to the line of

girl soldiers.  Her button eyes sometimes saw more than did the natural

eyes of her comrades, and so after staring hard at the magician's army,

she boldly advanced and danced right through the threatening line! On

the other side, she waved her stuffed arms and called out, "Come on,

folks.  The spears can't hurt you." said the Wizard gaily.  "An optical

illusion, as I thought.  Let us all follow the Patchwork Girl."  The

three little girls were somewhat nervous in attempting to brave the

spears and battle axes, but after the others had safely passed the

line, they ventured to follow.  And when all had passed through the

ranks of the girl army, the army itself magically disappeared from view.



All this time our friends had been getting farther up the hill and

nearer to the wicker castle.  Now, continuing their advance, they

expected something else to oppose their way, but to their astonishment

nothing happened, and presently they arrived at the wicker gates, which

stood wide open, and boldly entered the domain of Ugu the Shoemaker.









CHAPTER 22



IN THE WICKER CASTLE





No sooner were the Wizard of Oz and his followers well within the

castle entrance when the big gates swung to with a clang and heavy bars

dropped across them.  They looked at one another uneasily, but no one

cared to speak of the incident.   If they were indeed prisoners in the

wicker castle, it was evident they must find a way to escape, but their

first duty was to attend to the errand on which they had come and seek

the Royal Ozma, whom they believed to be a prisoner of the magician,

and rescue her.



They found they had entered a square courtyard, from which an entrance

led into the main building of the castle.  No person had appeared to

greet them so far, although a gaudy peacock perched upon the wall

cackled with laughter and said in its sharp, shrill voice, "Poor fools!



THE DEFIANCE OF UGU THE SHOEMAKER





The delay caused by Scraps had prevented anyone from running to the

shelves to secure the magic instruments so badly needed.  Even Cayke

neglected to get her diamond-studded dishpan because she was watching

the Patchwork Girl.  And now the magician had opened his trap door and

appeared in his golden cage again, frowning angrily because his

prisoners had been able to turn their upside-down prison right side up.

"Which of you has dared defy my magic?" he shouted in a terrible voice.



"It was I," answered Dorothy calmly.



"Then I shall destroy you, for you are only an Earth girl and no

fairy," he said, and began to mumble some magic words.



Dorothy now realized that Ugu must be treated as an enemy, so she

advanced toward the corner in which he sat, saying as she went, "I am

not afraid of you, Mr.  Shoemaker, and I think you'll be sorry, pretty

soon, that you're such a bad man.  You can't destroy me, and I won't

destroy you, but I'm going to punish you for your wickedness."



Ugu laughed, a laugh that was not nice to hear, and then he waved his

hand.  Dorothy was halfway across the room when suddenly a wall of

glass rose before her and stopped her progress.  Through the glass she

could see the magician sneering at her because she was a weak little

girl, and this provoked her.  Although the glass wall obliged her to

halt, she instantly pressed both hands to her Magic Belt and cried in a

loud voice, "Ugu the Shoemaker, by the magic virtues of the Magic Belt,

I command you to become a dove!"



The magician instantly realized he was being enchanted, for he could

feel his form changing.  He struggled desperately against the

enchantment, mumbling magic words and making magic passes with his

hands.  And in one way he succeeded in defeating Dorothy's purpose, for

while his form soon changed to that of a gray dove, the dove was of an

enormous size, bigger even than Ugu had been as a man, and this feat he

The others were all busy congratulating Ozma, who was very happy at

being released from the confinement of the golden peach pit, where the

magician had placed her with the notion that she never could be found

or liberated.



"And only to think," cried Dorothy, "that Button-Bright has been

carrying you in his pocket all this time, and we never knew it!"



"The little Pink Bear told you," said the Bear King, "but you wouldn't

believe him."



"Never mind, my dears," said Ozma graciously, "all is well that ends

well, and you couldn't be expected to know I was inside the peach pit.

Indeed, I feared I would remain a captive much longer than I did, for

Ugu is a bold and clever magician, and he had hidden me very securely."



"You were in a fine peach," said Button-Bright, "the best I ever ate."



"The magician was foolish to make the peach so tempting," remarked the

Wizard, "but Ozma would lend beauty to any transformation."



"How did you manage to conquer Ugu the Shoemaker?" inquired the girl

Ruler of Oz.



Dorothy started to tell the story, and Trot helped her, and

Button-Bright wanted to relate it in his own way, and the Wizard tried

to make it clear to Ozma, and Betsy had to remind them of important

things they left out, and all together there was such a chatter that it

was a wonder that Ozma understood any of it.  But she listened

patiently, with a smile on her lovely face at their eagerness, and

presently had gleaned all the details of their adventures.



Ozma thanked the Frogman very earnestly for his assistance, and she

advised Cayke the Cookie Cook to dry her weeping eyes, for she promised

to take her to the Emerald City and see that her cherished dishpan was

restored to her.  Then the beautiful Ruler took a chain of emeralds

from around her own neck and placed it around the neck of the little

Pink Bear.



"Your wise answers to the questions of my friends," said she, "helped

them to rescue me.   Therefore I am deeply grateful to you and to your

