

And the MS. itself--You must picture me, when first it was given into my

care, turning it over, curiously, and making a swift, jerky examination.

A small book it is; but thick, and all, save the last few pages, filled

with a quaint but legible handwriting, and writ very close. I have the

queer, faint, pit-water smell of it in my nostrils now as I write, and

my fingers have subconscious memories of the soft, "cloggy" feel of the

long-damp pages.



I read, and, in reading, lifted the Curtains of the Impossible that

blind the mind, and looked out into the unknown. Amid stiff, abrupt

sentences I wandered; and, presently, I had no fault to charge against

their abrupt tellings; for, better far than my own ambitious phrasing,

is this mutilated story capable of bringing home all that the old

Recluse, of the vanished house, had striven to tell.



Of the simple, stiffly given account of weird and extraordinary matters,

I will say little. It lies before you. The inner story must be uncovered,

personally, by each reader, according to ability and desire. And even

should any fail to see, as now I see, the shadowed picture and conception

of that to which one may well give the accepted titles of Heaven and Hell;

yet can I promise certain thrills, merely taking the story as a story.



WILLIAM HOPE HODGSON December 17, 1907







_I_



THE FINDING OF THE MANUSCRIPT



Right away in the west of Ireland lies a tiny hamlet called Kraighten.

It is situated, alone, at the base of a low hill. Far around there

spreads a waste of bleak and totally inhospitable country; where, here

and there at great intervals, one may come upon the ruins of some long

desolate cottage--unthatched and stark. The whole land is bare and

unpeopled, the very earth scarcely covering the rock that lies beneath

it, and with which the country abounds, in places rising out of the soil

in wave-shaped ridges.



Yet, in spite of its desolation, my friend Tonnison and I had elected to

spend our vacation there. He had stumbled on the place by mere chance



I was silent, and rather awed. The sight was so unexpectedly grand and

eerie; though this latter quality came more upon me later.



Presently, I looked up and across to the further side of the chasm.

There, I saw something towering up among the spray: it looked like a

fragment of a great ruin, and I touched Tonnison on the shoulder. He

glanced 'round, with a start, and I pointed toward the thing. His gaze

followed my finger, and his eyes lighted up with a sudden flash of

excitement, as the object came within his field of view.



"Come along," he shouted above the uproar. "We'll have a look at it.

There's something queer about this place; I feel it in my bones." And he

started off, 'round the edge of the craterlike abyss. As we neared this

new thing, I saw that I had not been mistaken in my first impression. It

was undoubtedly a portion of some ruined building; yet now I made out

that it was not built upon the edge of the chasm itself, as I had at

first supposed; but perched almost at the extreme end of a huge spur of

rock that jutted out some fifty or sixty feet over the abyss. In fact,

the jagged mass of ruin was literally suspended in midair.



Arriving opposite it, we walked out on to the projecting arm of rock,

and I must confess to having felt an intolerable sense of terror as I

looked down from that dizzy perch into the unknown depths below us--into

the deeps from which there rose ever the thunder of the falling water

and the shroud of rising spray.



Reaching the ruin, we clambered 'round it cautiously, and, on the

further side, came upon a mass of fallen stones and rubble. The ruin

itself seemed to me, as I proceeded now to examine it minutely, to be a

portion of the outer wall of some prodigious structure, it was so thick

and substantially built; yet what it was doing in such a position I

could by no means conjecture. Where was the rest of the house, or

castle, or whatever there had been?



The light came from the end wall, and grew ever brighter until its

intolerable glare caused my eyes acute pain, and involuntarily I closed

them. It may have been a few seconds before I was able to open them. The

first thing I noticed was that the light had decreased, greatly; so that

it no longer tried my eyes. Then, as it grew still duller, I was aware,

all at once, that, instead of looking at the redness, I was staring

through it, and through the wall beyond.



Gradually, as I became more accustomed to the idea, I realized that I

was looking out on to a vast plain, lit with the same gloomy twilight

that pervaded the room. The immensity of this plain scarcely can be

conceived. In no part could I perceive its confines. It seemed to

broaden and spread out, so that the eye failed to perceive any

limitations. Slowly, the details of the nearer portions began to grow

clear; then, in a moment almost, the light died away, and the vision--if

vision it were--faded and was gone.



Suddenly, I became conscious that I was no longer in the chair.

Instead, I seemed to be hovering above it, and looking down at a dim

something, huddled and silent. In a little while, a cold blast struck

me, and I was outside in the night, floating, like a bubble, up through

the darkness. As I moved, an icy coldness seemed to enfold me, so that

I shivered.



After a time, I looked to right and left, and saw the intolerable

blackness of the night, pierced by remote gleams of fire. Onward,

outward, I drove. Once, I glanced behind, and saw the earth, a small

crescent of blue light, receding away to my left. Further off, the sun,

a splash of white flame, burned vividly against the dark.



An indefinite period passed. Then, for the last time, I saw the

earth--an enduring globule of radiant blue, swimming in an eternity of

ether. And there I, a fragile flake of soul dust, flickered silently

across the void, from the distant blue, into the expanse of the unknown.



A great while seemed to pass over me, and now I could nowhere see

had gone down on all fours and was snuffing and rooting, like a

veritable hog, at the surface of the arena. A moment and it rose to its

feet, clutching upward, with an expression of desire upon its face such

as I have never seen in this world.



Continually, I mounted higher. A few minutes, it seemed, and I had

risen above the great mountains--floating, alone, afar in the redness.

At a tremendous distance below, the arena showed, dimly; with the mighty

House looking no larger than a tiny spot of green. The Swine-thing was

no longer visible.



Presently, I passed over the mountains, out above the huge breadth of

the plain. Far away, on its surface, in the direction of the ring-shaped

sun, there showed a confused blur. I looked toward it, indifferently. It

reminded me, somewhat, of the first glimpse I had caught of the

mountain-amphitheatre.



With a sense of weariness, I glanced upward at the immense ring of

fire. What a strange thing it was! Then, as I stared, out from the dark

center, there spurted a sudden flare of extraordinary vivid fire.

Compared with the size of the black center, it was as naught; yet, in

itself, stupendous. With awakened interest, I watched it carefully,

noting its strange boiling and glowing. Then, in a moment, the whole

thing grew dim and unreal, and so passed out of sight. Much amazed, I

glanced down to the Plain from which I was still rising. Thus, I

received a fresh surprise. The Plain--everything had vanished, and only

a sea of red mist was spread far below me. Gradually as I stared this

grew remote, and died away into a dim far mystery of red against an

unfathomable night. A while, and even this had gone, and I was wrapped

in an impalpable, lightless gloom.







_IV_



THE EARTH



Thus I was, and only the memory that I had lived through the dark, once

before, served to sustain my thoughts. A great time passed--ages. And

then a single star broke its way through the darkness. It was the first

of one of the outlying clusters of this universe. Presently, it was far

brought in contact with something superhumanly foul; something

unholy--belonging to some hitherto undreamt of state of existence.



I cannot say that I grasped these various details of the brute at the

time. I think they seemed to come back to me, afterward, as though

imprinted upon my brain. I imagined more than I saw as I looked at the

thing, and the material details grew upon me later.



For perhaps a minute I stared at the creature; then as my nerves

steadied a little I shook off the vague alarm that held me, and took a

step toward the window. Even as I did so, the thing ducked and vanished.

I rushed to the door and looked 'round hurriedly; but only the tangled

bushes and shrubs met my gaze.



I ran back into the house, and, getting my gun, sallied out to search

through the gardens. As I went, I asked myself whether the thing I had

just seen was likely to be the same of which I had caught a glimpse in

the morning. I inclined to think it was.



I would have taken Pepper with me; but judged it better to give his

wound a chance to heal. Besides, if the creature I had just seen was, as

I imagined, his antagonist of the morning, it was not likely that he

would be of much use.



I began my search, systematically. I was determined, if it were

possible, to find and put an end to that swine-thing. This was, at

least, a material Horror!



At first, I searched, cautiously; with the thought of Pepper's wound in

my mind; but, as the hours passed, and not a sign of anything living,

showed in the great, lonely gardens, I became less apprehensive. I felt

almost as though I would welcome the sight of it. Anything seemed better

than this silence, with the ever-present feeling that the creature might

be lurking in every bush I passed. Later, I grew careless of danger, to

the extent of plunging right through the bushes, probing with my gun

barrel as I went.



At times, I shouted; but only the echoes answered back. I thought thus

taken refuge in her room. I put the flask down on the table. My

attention was distracted by a noise in the direction of the back door. I

went toward it, and listened. It appeared to be shaken, as though some

of the creatures struggled with it, silently; but it was far too

strongly constructed and hung to be easily moved.



Out in the gardens rose a continuous sound. It might have been

mistaken, by a casual listener, for the grunting and squealing of a herd

of pigs. But, as I stood there, it came to me that there was sense and

meaning to all those swinish noises. Gradually, I seemed able to trace

a semblance in it to human speech--glutinous and sticky, as though each

articulation were made with difficulty: yet, nevertheless, I was

becoming convinced that it was no mere medley of sounds; but a rapid

interchange of ideas.



By this time, it had grown quite dark in the passages, and from these

came all the varied cries and groans of which an old house is so full

after nightfall. It is, no doubt, because things are then quieter, and

one has more leisure to hear. Also, there may be something in the theory

that the sudden change of temperature, at sundown, affects the structure

of the house, somewhat--causing it to contract and settle, as it were,

for the night. However, this is as may be; but, on that night in

particular, I would gladly have been quit of so many eerie noises. It

seemed to me, that each crack and creak was the coming of one of those

Things along the dark corridors; though I knew in my heart that this

could not be, for I had seen, myself, that all the doors were secure.



Gradually, however, these sounds grew on my nerves to such an extent

that, were it only to punish my cowardice, I felt I must make the 'round

of the basement again, and, if anything were there, face it. And then, I

would go up to my study, for I knew sleep was out of the question, with

the house surrounded by creatures, half beasts, half something else, and

The room was much lighter. The night air blew in, coldly, through the

shattered panes. Down below, in the night, I could hear a soft moaning,

and a confused murmur of swine-voices.



Stepping to one side of the window, I reloaded, and then stood there,

waiting. Presently, I heard a scuffling noise. From where I stood in the

shadow, I could see, without being seen.



Nearer came the sounds, and then I saw something come up above the

sill, and clutch at the broken window-frame. It caught a piece of the

woodwork; and, now, I could make out that it was a hand and arm. A

moment later, the face of one of the Swine-creatures rose into view.

Then, before I could use my rifle, or do anything, there came a sharp

crack--cr-ac-k; and the window-frame gave way under the weight of the

Thing. Next instant, a squashing thud, and a loud outcry, told me that

it had fallen to the ground. With a savage hope that it had been killed,

I went to the window. The moon had gone behind a cloud, so that I could

see nothing; though a steady hum of jabbering, just beneath where I

stood, indicated that there were several more of the brutes close

at hand.



As I stood there, looking down, I marveled how it had been possible for

the creatures to climb so far; for the wall is comparatively smooth,

while the distance to the ground must be, at least, eighty feet.



All at once, as I bent, peering, I saw something, indistinctly, that

cut the grey shadow of the house-side, with a black line. It passed the

window, to the left, at a distance of about two feet. Then, I remembered

that it was a gutter-pipe, that had been put there some years ago, to

carry off the rainwater. I had forgotten about it. I could see, now, how

the creatures had managed to reach the window. Even as the solution came

to me, I heard a faint slithering, scratching noise, and knew that

another of the brutes was coming. I waited some odd moments; then leant

out of the window and felt the pipe. To my delight, I found that it was

was so.







_IX_



IN THE CELLARS



At last, what with being tired and cold, and the uneasiness that

possessed me, I resolved to take a walk through the house; first calling

in at the study, for a glass of brandy to warm me. This, I did, and,

while there, I examined the door, carefully; but found all as I had left

it the night before.



The day was just breaking, as I left the tower; though it was still too

dark in the house to be able to see without a light, and I took one of

the study candles with me on my 'round. By the time I had finished the

ground floor, the daylight was creeping in, wanly, through the barred

windows. My search had shown me nothing fresh. Everything appeared to be

in order, and I was on the point of extinguishing my candle, when the

thought suggested itself to me to have another glance 'round the

cellars. I had not, if I remember rightly, been into them since my hasty

search on the evening of the attack.



For, perhaps, the half of a minute, I hesitated. I would have been very

willing to forego the task--as, indeed, I am inclined to think any man

well might--for of all the great, awe-inspiring rooms in this house, the

cellars are the hugest and weirdest. Great, gloomy caverns of places,

unlit by any ray of daylight. Yet, I would not shirk the work. I felt

that to do so would smack of sheer cowardice. Besides, as I reassured

myself, the cellars were really the most unlikely places in which to

come across anything dangerous; considering that they can be entered,

only through a heavy oaken door, the key of which, I carry always on

my person.



It is in the smallest of these places that I keep my wine; a gloomy

hole close to the foot of the cellar stairs; and beyond which, I have

seldom proceeded. Indeed, save for the rummage 'round, already

mentioned, I doubt whether I had ever, before, been right through

the cellars.



As I unlocked the great door, at the top of the steps, I paused,



Pepper followed, stopping at the doorstep to sniff, suspiciously; and

carrying his nose up and down the jambs, as though following a scent.

Then, suddenly, he turned, sharply, and started to run here and there,

in semicircles and circles, all around the door; finally returning to

the threshold. Here, he began again to nose about.



Hitherto, I had stood, watching the dog; yet, all the time, with half

my gaze on the wild tangle of gardens, stretching 'round me. Now, I went

toward him, and, bending down, examined the surface of the door, where

he was smelling. I found that the wood was covered with a network of

scratches, crossing and recrossing one another, in inextricable

confusion. In addition to this, I noticed that the doorposts,

themselves, were gnawed in places. Beyond these, I could find nothing;

and so, standing up, I began to make the tour of the house wall.



Pepper, as soon as I walked away, left the door, and ran ahead, still

nosing and sniffing as he went along. At times, he stopped to

investigate. Here, it would be a bullet-hole in the pathway, or,

perhaps, a powder stained wad. Anon, it might be a piece of torn sod, or

a disturbed patch of weedy path; but, save for such trifles, he found

nothing. I observed him, critically, as he went along, and could

discover nothing of uneasiness, in his demeanor, to indicate that he

felt the nearness of any of the creatures. By this, I was assured that

the gardens were empty, at least for the present, of those hateful

Things. Pepper could not be easily deceived, and it was a relief to feel

that he would know, and give me timely warning, if there were

any danger.



Reaching the place where I had shot that first creature, I stopped, and

made a careful scrutiny; but could see nothing. From there, I went on to

where the great copingstone had fallen. It lay on its side, apparently

just as it had been left when I shot the brute that was moving it. A

couple of feet to the right of the nearer end, was a great dent in the

out into a profuse sweat, and tried to moisten my lips with my tongue.

My throat had gone suddenly dry, and I coughed, huskily. It came back to

me, in a dozen, horrible, throaty tones, mockingly. I peered,

helplessly, into the gloom; but still nothing showed. I had a strange,

choky sensation, and again I coughed, dryly. Again the echo took it up,

rising and falling, grotesquely, and dying slowly into a

muffled silence.



Then, suddenly, a thought came to me, and I held my breath. The other

breathing stopped. I breathed again, and, once more, it re-commenced.

But now, I no longer feared. I knew that the strange sounds were not

made by any lurking Swine-creature; but were simply the echo of my own

respirations.



Yet, I had received such a fright, that I was glad to scramble up the

rift, and haul up the rope. I was far too shaken and nervous to think of

entering that dark hole then, and so returned to the house. I felt more

myself next morning; but even then, I could not summon up sufficient

courage to explore the place.



All this time, the water in the Pit had been creeping slowly up, and

now stood but a little below the opening. At the rate at which it was

rising, it would be level with the floor in less than another week; and

I realized that, unless I carried out my investigations soon, I should

probably never do so at all; as the water would rise and rise, until the

opening, itself, was submerged.



It may have been that this thought stirred me to act; but, whatever it

was, a couple of days later, saw me standing at the top of the cleft,

fully equipped for the task.



This time, I was resolved to conquer my shirking, and go right through

with the matter. With this intention, I had brought, in addition to the

rope, a bundle of candles, meaning to use them as a torch; also my

double-barreled shotgun. In my belt, I had a heavy horse-pistol, loaded

with buckshot.



As before, I fastened the rope to the tree. Then, having tied my gun

began the grimmest fight with death, from which ever I hope to emerge

victorious. Slowly, furiously, almost hopelessly, I strove; and that

faithful Pepper led me, dragged me, upward and onward, until, at last,

ahead I saw a gleam of blessed light. It was the entrance. Only a few

yards further, and I reached the opening, with the water surging and

boiling hungrily around my loins.



And now I understood the cause of the catastrophe. It was raining

heavily, literally in torrents. The surface of the lake was level with

the bottom of the opening--nay! more than level, it was above it.

Evidently, the rain had swollen the lake, and caused this premature

rise; for, at the rate the ravine had been filling, it would not have

reached the entrance for a couple more days.



Luckily, the rope by which I had descended, was streaming into the

opening, upon the inrushing waters. Seizing the end, I knotted it

securely 'round Pepper's body, then, summoning up the last remnant of my

strength, I commenced to swarm up the side of the cliff. I reached the

Pit edge, in the last stage of exhaustion. Yet, I had to make one more

effort, and haul Pepper into safety.



Slowly and wearily, I hauled on the rope. Once or twice, it seemed that

I should have to give up; for Pepper is a weighty dog, and I was utterly

done. Yet, to let go, would have meant certain death to the old fellow,

and the thought spurred me to greater exertions. I have but a very hazy

remembrance of the end. I recall pulling, through moments that lagged

strangely. I have also some recollection of seeing Pepper's muzzle,

appearing over the Pit edge, after what seemed an indefinite period of

time. Then, all grew suddenly dark.







_XIII_



THE TRAP IN THE GREAT CELLAR



I suppose I must have swooned; for, the next thing I remember, I opened

my eyes, and all was dusk. I was lying on my back, with one leg doubled

under the other, and Pepper was licking my ears. I felt horribly stiff,

and my leg was numb, from the knee, downward. For a few minutes, I lay







THE FRAGMENTS[2]



(_The legible portions of the mutilated leaves_.)



... through tears ... noise of eternity in my ears, we parted ... She

whom I love. O, my God ...!



I was a great time dazed, and then I was alone in the blackness of the

night. I knew that I journeyed back, once more, to the known universe.

Presently, I emerged from that enormous darkness. I had come among the

stars ... vast time ... the sun, far and remote.



I entered into the gulf that separates our system from the outer suns.

As I sped across the dividing dark, I watched, steadily, the

ever-growing brightness and size of our sun. Once, I glanced back to the

stars, and saw them shift, as it were, in my wake, against the mighty

background of night, so vast was the speed of my passing spirit.



I drew nigher to our system, and now I could see the shine of Jupiter.

Later, I distinguished the cold, blue gleam of the earthlight.... I had

a moment of bewilderment. All about the sun there seemed to be bright,

objects, moving in rapid orbits. Inward, nigh to the savage glory of the

sun, there circled two darting points of light, and, further off, there

flew a blue, shining speck, that I knew to be the earth. It circled the

sun in a space that seemed to be no more than an earth-minute.



... nearer with great speed. I saw the radiances of Jupiter and

Saturn, spinning, with incredible swiftness, in huge orbits. And ever I

drew more nigh, and looked out upon this strange sight--the visible

circling of the planets about the mother sun. It was as though time had

been annihilated for me; so that a year was no more to my unfleshed

spirit, than is a moment to an earth-bound soul.



The speed of the planets, appeared to increase; and, presently, I was

watching the sun, all ringed about with hair-like circles of different

colored fire--the paths of the planets, hurtling at mighty speed, about

the central flame....



"... the sun grew vast, as though it leapt to meet me.... And now I was

Years--and years.



Outside, the weaving, fluttering light held the world. Inside, I stood,

trying to understand what it meant--what that little pile of dust and

dry bones, on the carpet, meant. But I could not think, coherently.



I glanced away, 'round the room, and now, for the first time, noticed

how dusty and old the place looked. Dust and dirt everywhere; piled in

little heaps in the corners, and spread about upon the furniture. The

very carpet, itself, was invisible beneath a coating of the same, all

pervading, material. As I walked, little clouds of the stuff rose up

from under my footsteps, and assailed my nostrils, with a dry, bitter

odor that made me wheeze, huskily.



Suddenly, as my glance fell again upon Pepper's remains, I stood still,

and gave voice to my confusion--questioning, aloud, whether the years

were, indeed, passing; whether this, which I had taken to be a form of

vision, was, in truth, a reality. I paused. A new thought had struck me.

Quickly, but with steps which, for the first time, I noticed, tottered,

I went across the room to the great pier-glass, and looked in. It was

too covered with grime, to give back any reflection, and, with trembling

hands, I began to rub off the dirt. Presently, I could see myself. The

thought that had come to me, was confirmed. Instead of the great, hale

man, who scarcely looked fifty, I was looking at a bent, decrepit man,

whose shoulders stooped, and whose face was wrinkled with the years of a

century. The hair--which a few short hours ago had been nearly coal

black--was now silvery white. Only the eyes were bright. Gradually, I

traced, in that ancient man, a faint resemblance to my self of

other days.



I turned away, and tottered to the window. I knew, now, that I was old,

and the knowledge seemed to confirm my trembling walk. For a little

space, I stared moodily out into the blurred vista of changeful

landscape. Even in that short time, a year passed, and, with a petulant

gesture, I left the window. As I did so, I noticed that my hand shook


risen, bodily. Yet, they were still a long way below me; for the rock,

over the mouth of the pit, on which this house stands, arches up to a

great height.



It was later, that I noticed a change in the constant color of the

gardens. The pale, dirty green was growing ever paler and paler, toward

white. At last, after a great space, they became greyish-white, and

stayed thus for a very long time. Finally, however, the greyness began

to fade, even as had the green, into a dead white. And this remained,

constant and unchanged. And by this I knew that, at last, snow lay upon

all the Northern world.



And so, by millions of years, time winged onward through eternity, to

the end--the end, of which, in the old-earth days, I had thought

remotely, and in hazily speculative fashion. And now, it was approaching

in a manner of which none had ever dreamed.



I recollect that, about this time, I began to have a lively, though

morbid, curiosity, as to what would happen when the end came--but I

seemed strangely without imaginings.



All this while, the steady process of decay was continuing. The few

remaining pieces of glass, had long ago vanished; and, every now and

then, a soft thud, and a little cloud of rising dust, would tell of some

fragment of fallen mortar or stone.



I looked up again, to the fiery sheet that quaked in the heavens above

me and far down into the Southern sky. As I looked, the impression was

borne in upon me, that it had lost some of its first brilliancy--that it

was duller, deeper hued.



I glanced down, once more, to the blurred white of the worldscape.

Sometimes, my look returned to the burning sheet of dulling flame, that

was, and yet hid, the sun. At times, I glanced behind me, into the

growing dusk of the great, silent room, with its aeon-carpet of

sleeping dust....



So, I watched through the fleeting ages, lost in soul-wearing thoughts

and wonderings, and possessed with a new weariness.







_XVII_


while, and again becoming extinguished.



All at once, during one of these periods of life, a sudden flame cut

across the night--a quick glare that lit up the dead earth, shortly;

giving me a glimpse of its flat lonesomeness. The light appeared to come

from the sun--shooting out from somewhere near its center, diagonally. A

moment, I gazed, startled. Then the leaping flame sank, and the gloom

fell again. But now it was not so dark; and the sun was belted by a thin

line of vivid, white light. I stared, intently. Had a volcano broken out

on the sun? Yet, I negatived the thought, as soon as formed. I felt that

the light had been far too intensely white, and large, for such a cause.



Another idea there was, that suggested itself to me. It was, that one

of the inner planets had fallen into the sun--becoming incandescent,

under that impact. This theory appealed to me, as being more plausible,

and accounting more satisfactorily for the extraordinary size and

brilliance of the blaze, that had lit up the dead world, so

unexpectedly.



Full of interest and emotion, I stared, across the darkness, at that

line of white fire, cutting the night. One thing it told to me,

unmistakably: the sun was yet rotating at an enormous speed.[11] Thus, I

knew that the years were still fleeting at an incalculable rate; though

so far as the earth was concerned, life, and light, and time, were

things belonging to a period lost in the long gone ages.



After that one burst of flame, the light had shown, only as an

encircling band of bright fire. Now, however, as I watched, it began

slowly to sink into a ruddy tint, and, later, to a dark, copper-red

color; much as the sun had done. Presently, it sank to a deeper hue;

and, in a still further space of time, it began to fluctuate; having

periods of glowing, and anon, dying. Thus, after a great while, it

disappeared.



Long before this, the smoldering edge of the sun had deadened into

blackness. And so, in that supremely future time, the world, dark and

intensely silent, rode on its gloomy orbit around the ponderous mass of

Suddenly, there rose a loud roar of swine-voices, and, up from the

center of the roofless house, shot a vast column of blood-red flame. I

saw the little, twisted towers and turrets flash into fire; yet still

preserving their twisted crookedness. The beams of the Green Sun, beat

upon the house, and intermingled with its lurid glows; so that it

appeared a blazing furnace of red and green fire.



Fascinated, I watched, until an overwhelming sense of coming danger,

drew my attention. I glanced up, and, at once, it was borne upon me,

that the sun was closer; so close, in fact, that it seemed to overhang

the world. Then--I know not how--I was caught up into strange

heights--floating like a bubble in the awful effulgence.



Far below me, I saw the earth, with the burning house leaping into an

ever growing mountain of flame, 'round about it, the ground appeared to

be glowing; and, in places, heavy wreaths of yellow smoke ascended from

the earth. It seemed as though the world were becoming ignited from that

one plague-spot of fire. Faintly, I could see the Swine-things. They

appeared quite unharmed. Then the ground seemed to cave in, suddenly,

and the house, with its load of foul creatures, disappeared into the

depths of the earth, sending a strange, blood colored cloud into the

heights. I remembered the hell Pit under the house.



In a while, I looked 'round. The huge bulk of the sun, rose high above

me. The distance between it and the earth, grew rapidly less. Suddenly,

the earth appeared to shoot forward. In a moment, it had traversed the

space between it and the sun. I heard no sound; but, out from the sun's

face, gushed an ever-growing tongue of dazzling flame. It seemed to

leap, almost to the distant Green Sun--shearing through the emerald

light, a very cataract of blinding fire. It reached its limit, and sank;

and, on the sun, glowed a vast splash of burning white--the grave of

the earth.



The sun was very close to me, now. Presently, I found that I was rising

higher; until, at last, I rode above it, in the emptiness. The Green Sun



My thoughts went back to the White Orb. Strange, that it should have

been--I stopped. An idea had come, suddenly. The White Orb and the Green

Sun! Were they one and the same? My imagination wandered backward, and I

remembered the luminous globe to which I had been so unaccountably

attracted. It was curious that I should have forgotten it, even

momentarily. Where were the others? I reverted again to the globe I had

entered. I thought, for a time, and matters became clearer. I conceived

that, by entering that impalpable globule, I had passed, at once, into

some further, and, until then, invisible dimension; There, the Green Sun

was still visible; but as a stupendous sphere of pale, white

light--almost as though its ghost showed, and not its material part.



A long time, I mused on the subject. I remembered how, on entering the

sphere, I had, immediately, lost all sight of the others. For a still

further period, I continued to revolve the different details in my mind.



In a while, my thoughts turned to other things. I came more into the

present, and began to look about me, seeingly. For the first time, I

perceived that innumerable rays, of a subtle, violet hue, pierced the

strange semi-darkness, in all directions. They radiated from the fiery

rim of the Green Sun. They seemed to grow upon my vision, so that, in a

little, I saw that they were countless. The night was filled with

them--spreading outward from the Green Sun, fan-wise. I concluded that I

was enabled to see them, by reason of the Sun's glory being cut off by

the eclipse. They reached right out into space, and vanished.



Gradually, as I looked, I became aware that fine points of intensely

brilliant light, traversed the rays. Many of them seemed to travel from

the Green Sun, into distance. Others came out of the void, toward the

Sun; but one and all, each kept strictly to the ray in which it

traveled. Their speed was inconceivably great; and it was only when they

neared the Green Sun, or as they left it, that I could see them as

separate specks of light. Further from the sun, they became thin lines

stared, and saw that I must have been mistaken--it seemed closely shut.



With a succession of efforts, I trod my way to the window, and looked

out. The sun was just rising, lighting up the tangled wilderness of

gardens. For, perhaps, a minute, I stood, and stared. I passed my hand,

confusedly, across my forehead.



Presently, amid the chaos of my senses, a sudden thought came to me; I

turned, quickly, and called to Pepper. There was no answer, and I

stumbled across the room, in a quick access of fear. As I went, I tried

to frame his name; but my lips were numb. I reached the table, and

stooped down to him, with a catching at my heart. He was lying in the

shadow of the table, and I had not been able to see him, distinctly,

from the window. Now, as I stooped, I took my breath, shortly. There was

no Pepper; instead, I was reaching toward an elongated, little heap of

grey, ashlike dust....



I must have remained, in that half-stooped position, for some minutes.

I was dazed--stunned. Pepper had really passed into the land of shadows.







_XXIV_



THE FOOTSTEPS IN THE GARDEN



Pepper is dead! Even now, at times, I seem scarcely able to realize

that this is so. It is many weeks, since I came back from that strange

and terrible journey through space and time. Sometimes, in my sleep, I

dream about it, and go through, in imagination, the whole of that

fearsome happening. When I wake, my thoughts dwell upon it. That

Sun--those Suns, were they indeed the great Central Suns, 'round which

the whole universe, of the unknown heavens, revolves? Who shall say? And

the bright globules, floating forever in the light of the Green Sun! And

the Sea of Sleep on which they float! How unbelievable it all is. If it

were not for Pepper, I should, even after the many extraordinary things

that I have witnessed, be inclined to imagine that it was but a gigantic

dream. Then, there is that dreadful, dark nebula (with its multitudes of

red spheres) moving always within the shadow of the Dark Sun, sweeping



Suddenly, although there is no noise, I am awake--wide awake. I am

acutely conscious of the nearness of some mystery, of some overwhelming

Presence. The very air seems pregnant with terror. I sit huddled, and

just listen, intently. Still, there is no sound. Nature, herself, seems

dead. Then, the oppressive stillness is broken by a little eldritch

scream of wind, that sweeps 'round the house, and dies away, remotely.



I let my gaze wander across the half-lighted room. By the great clock

in the far corner, is a dark, tall shadow. For a short instant, I stare,

frightenedly. Then, I see that it is nothing, and am, momentarily,

relieved.



In the time that follows, the thought flashes through my brain, why

not leave this house--this house of mystery and terror? Then, as though

in answer, there sweeps up, across my sight, a vision of the wondrous

Sea of Sleep,--the Sea of Sleep where she and I have been allowed to

meet, after the years of separation and sorrow; and I know that I shall

stay on here, whatever happens.



Through the side window, I note the somber blackness of the night. My

glance wanders away, and 'round the room; resting on one shadowy object

and another. Suddenly, I turn, and look at the window on my right; as I

do so, I breathe quickly, and bend forward, with a frightened gaze at

something outside the window, but close to the bars. I am looking at a

vast, misty swine-face, over which fluctuates a flamboyant flame, of a

greenish hue. It is the Thing from the arena. The quivering mouth seems

to drip with a continual, phosphorescent slaver. The eyes are staring

straight into the room, with an inscrutable expression. Thus, I sit

rigidly--frozen.



The Thing has begun to move. It is turning, slowly, in my direction.

Its face is coming 'round toward me. It sees me. Two huge, inhumanly

human, eyes are looking through the dimness at me. I am cold with fear;

yet, even now, I am keenly conscious, and note, in an irrelevant way,

that the distant stars are blotted out by the mass of the giant face.

I opened my lips, to offer a contradictory opinion; for my sense of the

saneness of things, would not allow me to take the story literally; then

I shut them again, without saying anything. Somehow, the certainty in

Tonnison's voice affected my doubts. I felt, all at once, less assured;

though I was by no means convinced as yet.



After a few moments' silence, Tonnison rose, stiffly, and began to

undress. He seemed disinclined to talk; so I said nothing; but followed

his example. I was weary; though still full of the story I had

just read.



Somehow, as I rolled into my blankets, there crept into my mind a memory

of the old gardens, as we had seen them. I remembered the odd fear that

the place had conjured up in our hearts; and it grew upon me, with

conviction, that Tonnison was right.



It was very late when we rose--nearly midday; for the greater part of

the night had been spent in reading the MS.



Tonnison was grumpy, and I felt out of sorts. It was a somewhat dismal

day, and there was a touch of chilliness in the air. There was no

mention of going out fishing on either of our parts. We got dinner, and,

after that, just sat and smoked in silence.



Presently, Tonnison asked for the Manuscript: I handed it to him, and he

spent most of the afternoon in reading it through by himself.



It was while he was thus employed, that a thought came to me:--



"What do you say to having another look at--?" I nodded my head down

stream.



Tonnison looked up. "Nothing!" he said, abruptly; and, somehow, I was

less annoyed, than relieved, at his answer.



After that, I left him alone.



A little before teatime, he looked up at me, curiously.



"Sorry, old chap, if I was a bit short with you just now;" (just now,

indeed! he had not spoken for the last three hours) "but I would not go

there again," and he indicated with his head, "for anything that you

could offer me. Ugh!" and he put down that history of a man's terror and

