  COLD LIGHT                   CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK                   295  _How Could a Human Body Be Found Actually Splintered--Broken  into Sharp Fragments Like a Shattered Glass! Once Again Dr. Bird  Probes Deep into an Amazing Mystery._    BRIGANDS OF THE MOON         RAY CUMMINGS                         306  _Black Mutiny and Brigandage Stalk the Space-ship Planetara as  She Speeds to the Moon to Pick Up a Fabulously Rich Cache of  Radium-ore._    THE SOUL MASTER              WILL SMITH AND R. J. ROBBINS         350  _Desperately O'Hara Plunged into Prof. Kell's Mysterious Mansion.  For His Friend Skip Was the Victim of the Eccentric Scientist's  De-astralizing Experiment, and Faced a Fate More Hideous than  Death._    FROM THE OCEAN'S DEPTHS      SEWELL PEASLEE WRIGHT                376  _Man Came from the Sea. Mercer, by His Thought-telegraph, Learns  from the Weirdly Beautiful Ocean-maiden of a Branch that Returned  There._    VANDALS OF THE STARS         A. T. LOCKE                          390  _A Livid Flame Flares Across Space--and Over Manhattan Hovers  Teuxical, Vassal of Malfero, Lord of the Universe, Who Comes with  Ten Thousand Warriors to Ravage and Subjugate One More Planet for  His Master._    *       *       *       *       * 
 that sort, but the magnet kicked clear around and it may mean that we  have located what we are looking for. It should be about two miles away  and almost due west of here."    "There is no spring that I know of, Doc, and I think I know of every  water hole in this country," remarked Bill.    "There could hardly be a spring at this elevation, anyway," replied the  doctor. "Maybe it is what we are seeking. We'll start out in that  direction, anyway. Bill, you had better take the lead, for you know the  country. Spread out a little so that we won't be too bunched if anything  happens."    *       *       *       *       *    For three-quarters of an hour the little group of men made their way  through the wilderness in the direction indicated by the doctor.  Presently Bill, who was in the lead, held up his hand with a warning  gesture. The other three closed up as rapidly as cautious progress would  allow.    "What is it, Bill?" asked the doctor in an undertone.    "Slip up ahead and look over that crest."    The doctor obeyed instructions. As he glanced over he gave vent to a low  whistle of surprise and motioned for Carnes to join him. The operative  crawled up and glanced over the crest. In a hollow before them was a  crude one-storied house, and erected on an open space before it was a  massive piece of apparatus. It consisted of a number of huge metallic  cylinders, from which lines ran to a silvery concave mirror mounted on  an elaborate frame which would allow it to be rotated so as to point in  any direction.    "What is it?" whispered Carnes.    "Some kind of a projector," muttered the doctor. "I never saw one quite  like it, but it is meant to project something. I can't make out the  curve of that mirror. It isn't a parabola and it isn't an ellipse. It 
  I introduce myself, begging grace that I intrude upon your busy minutes,  with my only excuse that perhaps I may amuse you. For what the  commercial sellers of my pictured version were pleased to blare as my  handsome face, I ask your indulgence. My feminine audience of the  pantomimes was undoubtedly graciously pleased at my personality and  physical aspect. That I am "tall as a Viking of old"--and "handsome as a  young Norse God"--is very pretty talk in the selling of my product. But  I deplore its intrusion into the personality of this, my recorded  narrative. And so now, for preface, to all my audience I do give earnest  assurance that Gregg Haljan is no conceited zebra, handsomely striped by  nature, and proud of it. Not so. I am, I do beg you to believe, a very  humble fellow, striving for your approval, hoping only to entertain  you.    My introduction: My name, Gregg Haljan. My age, twenty-five years. I  was, at the time my narrative begins, Third Officer on the Space-Ship  Planetara. Our line was newly established; in 2070, to be exact,  following the modern improvements of the Martel Magnetic Levitation.[1]    *       *       *       *       *    Our ship, whose home port was Great-New York, carried mail and passenger  traffic to and from both Venus and Mars. Of astronomical necessity, our  flights were irregular. This spring, with the two other planets both  close to the earth, we were making two complete round trips. We had just  arrived in Great-New York, this May evening, from Grebhar, Venus Free  State. With only five hours in port here, we were departing the same  night at the zero hour for Ferrok-Shahn, capital of the Martian Union.    We were no sooner at the landing stage than I found a code-flash  summoning Dan Dean and me to Divisional Detective Headquarters. Dan  "Snap" Dean was one of my closest friends. He was radio-helio operator  of the Planetara. A small, wiry, red-headed chap, with a quick, ready  laugh and a wit that made everyone like him. 
 voyagers. But I was in no mood to listen. My gaze was down on the spider  incline, up which, over the bend of the ship's sleek, silvery body, the  passengers and their friends were coming in little groups. The upper  deck was already jammed with them.    The Planetara, as flyers go, was not a large vessel. Cylindrical of  body, forty feet maximum beam, and two hundred and seventy-five feet in  overall length. The passenger superstructure--no more than a hundred  feet long--was set amidships. A narrow deck, metallic-enclosed, and with  large bulls-eye windows, encircled the superstructure. Some of the  cabins opened directly onto the deck. Others had doors to the interior  corridors. There were half a dozen small but luxurious public rooms.    *       *       *       *       *    The rest of the vessel was given to freight storage and the mechanism  and control compartments. Forward of the passenger structure the  deck level continued under the cylindrical dome-roof to the bow. The  forward watch-tower observatory was here; officers' cabins; Captain  Carter's navigating rooms and Dr. Frank's office. Similarly, under  the stern-dome, was the stern watch-tower and a series of power  compartments.    Above the superstructure a confusion of spider bridges, ladders and  balconies were laced like a metal network. The turret in which Dr. Frank  and I now stood was perched here. Fifty feet away, like a bird's nest,  Snap's instrument room stood clinging to the metal bridge. The  dome-roof, with the glassite windows rolled back now, rose in a  mound-peak to cover this highest middle portion of the vessel.    Below, in the main hull, blue-lit metal corridors ran the entire length  of the ship. Freight storage compartments; gravity control rooms; the  air renewal systems; heater and ventilators and pressure mechanisms--all  were located there. And the kitchens, stewards' compartments, and the  living quarters of the crew. We carried a crew of sixteen, this voyage,  exclusive of the navigating officers, and the purser, Snap Dean, and Dr.  Frank.    *       *       *       *       * 
tiny transverse passage. The twin doors of A 22 and A 20 were before  me.    The invisible eavesdropper had gone into one of these rooms! I listened  at each of the panels, but there was only silence within.    The interior of the ship was suddenly singing with the steward's  siren--the call to awaken the passengers. It startled me. I moved  swiftly away. But as the siren shut off, in the silence I heard a soft,  musical voice:    "Wake up, Anita--I think that's the breakfast call."    And her answer: "All right, George. I hear it."      CHAPTER IV    _A Burn on a Martian Arm_    I did not appear at that morning meal. I was exhausted and drugged with  lack of sleep. I had a moment with Snap, to tell him what had occurred.  Then I sought out Carter. He had his little chart-room insulated. And we  were cautious. I told him what Snap and I had learned: the Gamma rays  from the moon, proving that Grantline had concentrated a considerable  ore-body. I also told him the message from Grantline.    "We'll stop on the way back, as he directs, Gregg." He bent closer to  me. "At Ferrok-Shahn I'm going to bring back a cordon of Interplanetary  Police. The secret will be out, of course, when once we stop at the  moon. We have no right, even now, to be flying this vessel as unguarded  as it is."    He was very solemn. And he was grim when I told him of the invisible  eavesdropper.    "You think he overheard Grantline's message?"    "I don't know," I said.    "Who was it? You seem to feel it was George Prince?"    "Yes."    I was convinced that the prowler had gone into A 20. When I mentioned  the purser, who seemed to have been watching me earlier in the night,  and again was sitting in the smoking room when the eavesdropper fled  past, Carter looked startled.    "Johnson is all right, Gregg."    "Is he? Does he know anything about this Grantline affair?"  
 "Something about treasure on the moon--Shac couldn't understand what.  And they mentioned you. He didn't hear what they said because the purser  joined them." Her whispered words tumbled over one another. "A hundred  pounds of gold leaf--that's the purser's price. He's with them, whatever  it is. He promised to do something for them."    She stopped. "Well?" I prompted.    "That's all. Shac's current was interrupted."    "Tell him to try it again, Venza! I'll talk with him. No! I'd better let  him alone. Can you get him to keep his mouth shut?"    "I think he might do anything I told him. He's a man."    "Find out what you can."    She sat away from me suddenly. "There's Anita and George Prince."    *       *       *       *       *    They came to the corner of the deck, but turned back. Venza caught my  look. And understood it.    "So you love Anita Prince so much as that, Gregg?" Venza was smiling. "I  wish you--I wish some man handsome as you would gaze after me like  that."    She turned solemn. "You may be interested to know that she loves you. I  could see it. I knew it when I mentioned you to her this morning."    "Me? Why, we've hardly spoken!"    "Is it necessary? I never heard that it was."    I could not see Venza's face; she stood up suddenly. And when I rose  beside her, she whispered,    "We should not be seen talking so long. I'll find out what I can."    I stared after her slight robed figure as she turned into the lounge  archway and vanished.      CHAPTER VI    _A Traitor, and a Passing Asteroid_    Captain Carter was grim. "So they've bought him off, have they? Go bring  him in here, Gregg. We'll have it out with him now."    Snap, Dr. Frank, Balch, our first officer, and I were in the captain's 
It was near midnight when Snap and I closed and sealed the helio-room  and started for the chart-room, where we were to meet with Captain  Carter and the other officers. The passengers had nearly all retired. A  game was in progress in the smoking room, but the deck was almost  deserted.    Snap and I were passing along one of the interior corridors. The  stateroom doors, with the illumined names of the passengers, were all  closed. The metal grid of the floor echoed our footsteps. Snap was in  advance of me. His body suddenly rose in the air. He went like a balloon  to the ceiling, struck it gently, and all in a heap came floating down  and landed on the floor!    "What in the infernal!--"    He was laughing as he picked himself up. But it was a brief laugh. We  knew what had happened: the artificial gravity-controls in the base of  the ship, which by magnetic force gave us normality aboard, were being  tampered with! For just this instant, this particular small section of  this corridor had been cut off. The slight bulk of the Planetara,  floating in space, had no appreciable gravity pull on Snap's body, and  the impulse of his step as he came to the unmagnetized area of the  corridor had thrown him to the ceiling. The area was normal now. Snap  and I tested it gingerly.    He gripped me. "That never went wrong by accident, Gregg! Someone down  there--"    *       *       *       *       *    We rushed to the nearest descending ladder. In the deserted lower room  the bank of dials stood neglected. A score of dials and switches were  here, governing the magnetism of different areas of the ship. There  should have been a night operator, but he was gone.    Then we saw him lying nearby, sprawled face down on the floor! In the  silence and dim lurid glow of the fluorescent tubes, we stood holding  our breaths, peering and listening. No one here. 
 Ah, if ever God seemed hovering close, it was now at this instant, on  this starlit deck floating in the black void of space.    Then Carter for just a moment removed the black shroud from her face. I  saw her brother gaze silently; saw him stoop and implant a kiss--and  turn away. I did not want to look, but I found myself moving slowly  forward.    *       *       *       *       *    She lay, so beautiful. Her face, white and calm and peaceful in death.  My sight blurred. Words seemed to echo: "A little son, cast in the  gentle image of his mother...."    "Easy, Gregg!" Snap was whispering to me. He had his arm around me.  "Come on away!"    They tied the shroud over her face. I did not see them as they put her  body in the tube, sent it through the exhaust-chamber, and dropped it.    But a moment later I saw it--a small black oblong bundle--hovering  beside us. It was perhaps a hundred feet away, circling us. Held by the  Planetara's bulk, it had momentarily become our satellite. It swung  around us like a moon. Gruesome satellite, by nature's laws forever to  follow us.    Then from another tube at the bow, Blackstone operated a small  Zed-co-ray projector. Its dull light caught the floating bundle,  neutralizing its metallic wrappings.    It swung off at a tangent. Speeding. Falling free in the dome of the  heavens. A rotating black oblong. But in a moment distance dwindled it  to a speck. A dull silver dot with the sunlight on it. A speck of human  Earth-dust, falling free....    It vanished. Anita--gone. In my heart was an echo of the prayer that the  Almighty might watch over her and guard her always....      CHAPTER XI    _The Electrical Eavesdropper_    I turned from the deck. Miko was near me! So he had dared to show  himself here among us! But I realized that he could not be aware we knew 
hull-corridors. A blended horror of sounds came up to us. Screams,  shouts, and the hissing and snapping of ray weapons. Our crew--such of  them as were loyal--were making a stand down below. But it was brief.  Within a minute it died away. The passengers, amidships in the  superstructure, were still shouting. Then above them Miko's roar  sounded.    "Be quiet! Go in your rooms--you will not be harmed."    The brigands in these few minutes were in control of the ship. All but  this little chart-room, where, with most of the ship's weapons, Carter  and I were intrenched.    "God, Gregg, that this should come upon us!"    Carter was fumbling with the chart-room weapons. "Here, Gregg, help me.  What have you got? Heat-ray? That's all I had ready."    It struck me then as I helped him make the connections that Carter in  this crisis was at best an inefficient commander. His red face had gone  splotchy purple; his hands were trembling. Skilled as captain of a  peaceful liner, he was at a loss now. Nor could I blame him. It is easy  to say we might have taken warning, done this or that, and come  triumphant through this attack. But only the fool looks backward and  says, "I would have done better."    *       *       *       *       *    I tried to summon my wits. The ship was lost to us, unless Carter and I  could do something. Our futile weapons! They were all here--four or  five heat-ray hand projectors that could send a pencil-ray a hundred  feet or so. I shot one diagonally up at the turret where Johnson was  leering down at our rear window, but he saw my gesture and dropped back  out of sight. The heat-beam flashed harmlessly up and struck the turret  roof. Then across the turret window came a sheen of radiance--an  electro-barrage. And behind it, Hahn's suave, evil face appeared. He  shouted down:    "We have orders to spare you, Gregg Haljan--or you would have been 
 My sweep of instant thoughts. A speck of human Earth-dust, falling free.  That was George Prince, who had been killed. George Prince's body,  disguised by the scheming Carter and Dr. Frank, buried in the guise of  his sister. And this black-robed figure who was trying to help us--    "Anita! Dear God! Anita, darling! Anita!"    "Gregg, dear one!"    "Anita! Dear God!"    *       *       *       *       *    My arms went around her, my lips pressed hers, and felt her tremulous,  eager answer.    "Gregg, dear."    "Anita, you!"    The form of Coniston showed at our window. She cast me off. She said,  with her throaty swagger of assumed masculinity:    "I have him, Sir Arthur. He will obey us."    I sensed her warning glance. She shoved me toward the window. She said  ironically, "Have no fear, Haljan. You will not be tortured, you and  Dean, if you obey our commands."    Coniston gripped me. "You fool! You caused us a lot of trouble, didn't  you? Move along there!"    He jerked me roughly through the window. Marched me the length of the  deck. Out to the stern-space; opened the door of my cubby; flung me in  and sealed the door upon me.    "Miko will come presently."    I stood in the darkness of my tiny room, listening to his retreating  footsteps. But my mind was not on him....    All the Universe in that instant had changed for me. Anita was alive!    (_To be continued_)      FOOTNOTES:    [1] As early as 1910 it was discovered that an object magnetized under  certain conditions was subject to a loss of weight, its gravity  partially nullified. The Martel discovery undoubtedly followed  that method.    [2] "United States of the World," which came into being in 2057 upon the 
"Score one," breathed Handlon. "If we--" At a sudden grating sound  overhead, he stopped.    Both turned to face the threatening muzzle of an ancient blunderbuss.  Behind it was an irate countenance, nearly covered by an unclipped beard  of a dirty gray color. In the eyes now glaring at them malevolently  through heavily concaved spectacles they read hate unutterable. The  barrel of the blunderbuss swung slightly as it covered alternately one  and the other. Both sensed that the finger even now tightening on the  trigger would not hesitate unduly. Being more or less hardened to  rebuffs of all kinds in the pursuance of their calling, the reporters  did not hesitate in stating their purpose.    "What?" yelled the old man. "You dare to invade my grounds and disturb  me at my labors for such a reason? Reporters! My scientific research  work is not for publicity, sirs; and futhermore I want it understood  that I am not to be dragged from my laboratory again for the purpose of  entertaining you or any others of your ilk. Get away!"    Without further ado the window was slammed down, a shutter closed on the  inside, and once more the silence of the dead descended upon the spot.  The two men grinned ruefully at each other, Handlon finally breaking the  stillness.    "My idea of the world's original one-sided conversation. We simply  didn't talk--and yet we're supposed to be reporters. You've got to hand  it to the Proff, Horace, for the beautiful rock-crusher he just handed  us."    "You didn't think we had anything easy, did you?" said Perry irritably.  "He'll change his tune presently, when--"    *       *       *       *       *    Handlon's jaw dropped. "You don't mean you're going to take any more  chances! Would you rouse him again after the way he treated us with  that gun? Besides, the train...."    Perry bent a scathing glance at his companion. "What on earth has the  train to do with our getting the Professor's confession of crime or 
   The little job of getting the old-fashioned rear window open was a mere  nothing to the experienced O'Hara, and in a moment he was inside the  house. His feet struck soft carpet. Catlike, he stepped to one side in  order to prevent any hidden eyes from perceiving his form silhouetted in  the dim light of the open window. He dared not use his flashlight for  fear that the circle of light would betray his position, thus making him  an excellent target for possible bullets. Following the wall closely he  managed to circle the room without mishap. His searching fingers finally  came in contact with a door frame, and he breathed a sigh of relief.  Here there was nothing to bar his progress except some moth-eaten  portieres. These he brushed aside.    The room which he now entered was probably the same into which the  Professor had ushered Handlon and Perry the day before. There being  still no sign of life about, the reporter decided to throw caution to  the winds. He brought his flash into play. Quickly casting the powerful  beam around the chamber he examined the place with an all-searching  glance.    *       *       *       *       *    Nothing.    With a stifled oath he turned his attention to the other rooms in the  immediate vicinity. The brilliant light revealed not the slightest trace  of a person, living or dead. The sound must have come from the second  story or from the cellar. He decided on the upper floor.    Feverish with impatience because of the valuable time he had already  lost, he bounded up the heavily carpeted stairs two at a time. Now to  his keen ears came certain faint sounds which told him that he was on  the right track. Before him extended a long, dusty hall, terminating in  a single heavy door. Several other doors opened at intervals along the  corridor. One or two of these were open, and he threw the beam from his  flash hastily into one after another of them. He saw only dusty and 
things even while I was out of my head." He told briefly of the visions  he had had in which he had seemed to contend with his brother reporter,  the horrid sensations as he felt himself overcome, the black oblivion in  which he then found himself, and the mysterious manner in which he had  left Keegan on that ill-fated assignment.    "What have you done to Handlon?" Jimmie's voice cut in. He was standing  over the form of the maniac, rigid and menacing. "You have exactly two  minutes to go."    "Find out for yourself!" snarled the bruised and battered fiend.    "I will," was the answer, and on the instant a horrible shriek rent the  air. Jimmie had quickly grasped both of the Professor's arms at the  wrists and was slowly twisting them in a grip of iron. Kell's face went  white, the lips writhed back over toothless gums, the eyes closed in the  supreme effort to withstand the excruciating pain. Then--    "Enough, enough!" he screamed.    *       *       *       *       *    O'Hara eased the pressure slightly but retained his hold upon the  clawlike hands. "Talk fast," he ordered.    The old man struggled futilely in the grasp of the powerful reporter,  finally glancing in the direction of the others. Would they show signs  of pity? Surely not Hard Boiled Bland. The Chief was watching the  struggles of the victim through a cloud of tobacco smoke which he was  slowly exhaling through his nose. The plainclothesman displayed no sign  of interest at all. The game was up!    "Very well," he said sullenly. "Handlon and Perry are both occupying the  same body."    "Wh-a-a-t?" roared Bland. "Jimmie, I guess you'll have to put the screws  to him some more. He's trying to make fools of us at the last minute!"    "No, no!" screamed the Professor. "What I say is true. I have been  working for years on my system of de-astralization. This last year I at 
   "Taylor?" The voice--Warren Mercer's familiar voice--rattled on without  waiting for a reply. "Get in your car and come down here as fast as  possible. Come just as you are, and--"    *       *       *       *       *    "What's the matter?" I managed to interrupt him. "Burglars?" I had never  heard Mercer speak in that high-pitched, excited voice before; his usual  speech was slow and thoughtful, almost didactic.    "Please, Taylor, don't waste time questioning me. If it weren't urgent,  I wouldn't be calling you, you know. Will you come?"    "You bet!" I said quickly, feeling rather a fool for ragging him when he  was in such deadly earnest. "Have--"    The receiver snapped and crackled; Mercer had hung up the instant he had  my assurance that I would come. Usually the very soul of courtesy and  consideration, that act alone would have convinced me that there was an  urgent need for my presence at The Monstrosity. That was Mercer's own  name for the impressive pile that was at once his residence and his  laboratory.    I threw off the smoking-jacket and pulled on a woolen golfing sweater,  for the wind was brisk and sharpish. In two minutes I was backing the  car out of the garage; a moment later I was off the gravelled drive and  tearing down the concrete with the accelerator all the way down, and the  black wind shrieking around the windshield of my little roadster.    My own shack was out of the city limits--a little place I keep to live  in when the urge to go fishing seizes me, which is generally about twice  a year. Mercer picked the place up for me at a song.    The Monstrosity was some four miles further out from town, and off the  highway perhaps a half-mile more.    I made the four miles in just a shade over that many minutes, and  clamped on the brakes as I saw the entrance to the little drive that led 
*       *       *       *       *    As my head broke the water, a hand, cold and strong as steel, closed  around my ankle. I looked down. The girl was watching me, and there was  no smile on her face now.    "All right!" I shouted across the pool to Mercer, who was watching  anxiously. Then, filling my lungs with air again, I pulled myself, by  means of the ladder, to the bottom of the pool. The restraining hand was  removed instantly.    The strange creature thrust her face close to mine as my feet touched  bottom, and for the first time I saw her features distinctly.    She was beautiful, but in a weird, unearthly sort of way. As I had  already noticed, her eyes were of unusual size, and I saw now that they  were an intense shade of blue, with a pupil of extraordinary proportion.  Her nose was well shaped, but the nostrils were slightly flattened, and  the orifices were rather more elongated than I had ever seen before. The  mouth was utterly fascinating, and her teeth, revealed by her engaging  smile, were as perfect as it would be possible to imagine.    The great mane of hair which enveloped her was, as I have said, tawny in  hue, and almost translucent, like the stems of some seaweeds I have  seen. And as she raised one slim white hand to brush back some wisps  that floated by her face, I saw distinctly the webs between her  fingers. They were barely noticeable, for they were as transparent as  the fins of a fish, but they were there, extending nearly to the last  joint of each finger.    *       *       *       *       *    As her face came close to my own, I became aware of the humming,  crooning sound I had heard before, louder this time. I could see, from 
   *       *       *       *       *    As we passed through the laboratory, Mercer glanced out at the empty  pool.    "Man came up from the sea," he said slowly, "and some men went back to  it. They were forced back to the teeming source from whence they came,  for lack of food. You saw that, Taylor--saw her forebears become  amphibians, like the now extinct Dipneusta and Ganoideii, or the still  existing Neoceratodus, Polypterus and Amia. Then their lungs became, in  effect, gills, and they lost their power of breathing atmospheric air,  and could use only air dissolved in water.    "A whole people there beneath the waves that land-man never dreamed  of--except, perhaps, the sailors of olden days, with their tales of  mermaids, which we are accustomed to laugh at in our wisdom!"    "But why were no bodies ever washed ashore?" I asked. "I would think--"    "You saw why," interrupted Mercer grimly. "The ocean teems with hungry  life. Death is the signal for a feast. It was little more than a miracle  that her body came ashore, a miracle due perhaps to the storm which sent  the hungry monsters to the greater depths. And even had a body come  ashore it would have been buried as that of some unknown, unfortunate  human. The differences between these people and ourselves would not be  noticeable to a casual observer.    "No, Taylor, we have been party to what was close to a miracle. And we  are the only witnesses to it, you and Carson and myself. And"--he sighed  deeply--"it is over."    I did not reply. I was thinking of the girl's odd gesture, at parting,  and I wondered if it were indeed a finished chapter.          Vandals of the Stars    _By A. T. Locke_    A livid flame flares across Space--and over Manhattan hovers  Teuxical, vassal of Malfero, Lord of the Universe, who comes 
  "Let him go, Inga, if he wants to sleep," urged Stanton. "I will stay  here and keep watch with you."    "--and if order is not restored in the streets of Manhattan within the  course of a short time, the authorities will resort to morphite gas to  quell the turbulence and rioting--"    "The streets must be frightfully congested," said Inga. "It is the first  occasion in a long time that the police have had to threaten the use of  morphite."    "--we do not want to alarm people unnecessarily but we have to report,"  came the hurried voice of the broadcaster, "that the monstrous mass that  has been hanging above the city just made a sudden drop of five thousand  feet and again came to a stop. It is now a little more than six miles  over Manhattan and--again it has dropped. This time it fell like a  plummet for twelve thousand feet. It is now about twenty thousand feet,  some four miles, above Manhattan and--"    *       *       *       *       *    A cry of alarm came from the lips of Inga as she gazed upward and saw  that gigantic, ominous-appearing object loom dim and vast in the  darkness above them.    She went to Dirk and threw her arms around him, as if she were clinging  to him for protection.    "Don't leave me, Dirk," she whispered. "I can just feel that something  terrible is going to happen, and I want you with me!"    "I'll stay with you, of course," whispered Dirk. Something of that  feeling of dread and apprehension which so fully possessed his two  companions entered into his mind. "Don't tremble so, Inga," he pleaded.  "It is a strange thing, but we will know more about it in the morning.  Be calm until then, my dear, if you can."    He looked over the shoulder of the girl, whose face was buried against  his breast, and he saw a hundred great red and green shafts of light 
 sumptuously and ornately attired.    Fragoni stepped forward, himself a dignified and striking figure, as the  leader of the strange adventurers came forth from the lane that had been  formed by his immobile guard of warriors.    The two men confronted each other, one whose power and wealth gave him a  dominate position on earth, and the other a personage from some domain  that was remote in the abyss of space.    Fragoni bowed and spoke a few friendly words of welcome and the  stranger, to the utter amazement of the banker and his associates,  responded in an English that was rather peculiar in accent but that they  could understand without any difficulty.    "From what part of the world do you come," asked the astounded Fragoni,  "that you speak our language?"    "We come from no part of this world," replied the stranger. "The empire  of my ruler is infinitely far away. But language, my friend, is not a  thing of accident. Life grows out of the substance of the universe and  language comes out of life. The speech of mankind, in your state of  development, varies but little throughout all space and I have heard  your English, as you call it, spoken among those who dwell in many, many  worlds."    "And your world?" asked Steinholt with avid curiosity. "Tell us of the  planet from which you come."    *       *       *       *       *    But Fragoni, smiling at the eagerness of Steinholt, interposed with a  kindly but arresting gesture.    "My name is Fragoni," he said to the stranger, "and I would have you  partake, of my hospitality and refresh yourself after your long journey.  These," he added, "are my friends, Steinholt, Vanderpool and Lazarre."    "I am Teuxical, vassal of his Supreme Highness, Malfero of Lodore," the  other replied. "This is my son, Zitlan," he continued, indicating the  young man behind him, "and the others are my high captains, Anteucan,  Orzitza and Huazibar. More of my officers are below together with ten 
Zitlan, as he followed after the others, passed close to Dirk and,  pausing for a moment, fixed his hateful eyes on him.    "You dog," he whispered malignantly, "remember what I tell you! The  time will come when I will cast you to the carnaphlocti in the dark and  icy caverns of sunless Tiganda. You will die," he swore, "the death of a  million agonies!"    For a moment Dirk felt an almost irresistible impulse to hurl himself on  the Lodorian and slay him.    He managed to maintain his control, however, and only regarded Zitlan  with disdain as the latter turned and went on his way.    In another moment the plane, containing Stanton and the Lodorians, was  high up in the darkness.    Dirk glanced at the great clock that gleamed atop of the beacon-tower on  the Metropole Landing Field.    The hour was close to twelve-thirty A. M.    *       *       *       *       *    A moment of silence on the terrace followed the departure of the plane  that bore the Lodorians back to their craft.    For an hour the clouds had been gathering in the sky and now a fine,  cold rain commenced to fall.    A peal of thunder echoed above them after a sharp flash of lightning had  streaked across the black night above them.    A servant appeared from the entrance to the apartment and pressed a  button close to the door.    Protective plates of glass noiselessly enveloped the terrace, sheltering  those upon it from the inclement weather.    "It is well," remarked Fragoni, breaking the silence, "that we were  found by a leader like Teuxical. Our tribute will not be unbearable, and  he will bestow many benefits upon us."    "But surely," protested Dirk, "you do not intend to surrender without a  struggle! Nothing but disaster," he asserted earnestly, "will come upon  the earth if you do. Teuxical may be honest and just but, after all, he 
 watching the struggle with frightened eyes.    "We must reach the plane and get away," gasped Dirk. "In another three  minutes--"    He felled a Lodorian who, having lost his tube, was about to grapple  with him. He saw Steinholt send another one of their opponents reeling  backward.    "Fragoni!" he exclaimed. "The plane! Get in with Inga! We will come!"    Even as he spoke his fists were flailing back and forth between each one  of his staccato commands.    He saw beneath him a hand reaching toward a tube, and he kicked the  instrument of death. It hurtled over in the direction of Stanton and  landed close to his feet. Stanton might have picked it up and been in  possession of the means of aiding his old friends or his new allies. But  he shrunk away, panic-stricken, from the thing that lay so close to his  reach.    A Lodorian leaped upon Dirk's back in an effort to bring him to the  ground, but he stooped swiftly forward and his assailant was catapulted  over his head into those who were in front of him.    *       *       *       *       *    He caught a flash of the contorted face of Zitlan flying through the  air, and saw him land with a crash on the terrace, and lie there  writhing in pain.    "Steinholt, Lazarre!" he said convulsively. "We've got to strike once  more! And then--run!"    He plunged into their enemies with every bit of energy that he had left,  and saw two of them toppling down. Then, like a flash, he turned to  Lazarre, who was trying to fight off three of the Lodorians. Seizing one  of them by the waist, Dirk hurled him backward and he disposed of  another one in the same manner. His sheer desperation seemed to have  given him unbounded strength and power.    Lazarre sent his third opponent down with a blow under the chin and  then, with Dirk at his side, they turned to the assistance of 
