    VOL. II, No. 1                 CONTENTS                        APRIL, 1930      COVER DESIGN                              H. W. WESSOLOWSKI    _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "Monsters of Moyen."_      THE MAN WHO WAS DEAD                      THOMAS H. KNIGHT               9    _As Jerry's Eyes Fell on the Creature's Head, He Shuddered--for the  Face Was Nothing but Bone, with Dull-brown Skin Stretched Taut over It.  A Skeleton That Was Alive!_      MONSTERS OF MOYEN                         ARTHUR J. BURKS               18    _"The Western World Shall be Next!" Was the Dread Ultimatum of the  Half-monster, Half-god Moyen._      VAMPIRES OF VENUS                         ANTHONY PELCHER               47    _Leslie Larner, an Entomologist Borrowed from the Earth, Pits Himself  Against the Night-flying Vampires That Are Ravaging the Inhabitants  of Venus._      BRIGANDS OF THE MOON                      RAY CUMMINGS                  60    _Out of Awful Space Tumbled the Space-ship Planetara Towards the 
   "They turned on a huge battery of ultra-violet rays then," continued the  hollow droning of the man who had been hanged, "which, as the scientist  had explained to me while in prison, acting upon the contents of the  syringes, by that time scattered through my whole body, was to renew the  spark of life within the dead thing hanging there. Through a tube, and  by means of a valve entering the glass vase in the top, the scientist  then admitted a dense white gas. So thick was it that in a moment or two  my body's transparent coffin appeared to be full of a liquid as white as  milk. Electricity then revolved my cage around so that my body was  insured a complete and even exposure to the rays of the green and violet  lamps. And while all this silly stuff was going on, around and around  the laboratory I floated, confident of the complete failure of the whole  thing, yet determined to see it through if for no other reason than to  see the discomfiture and disappointment that this mere man was bound to  experience. You see, I was already looking back upon earthly mortals as  being inferior, and now as I waited for this proof I was all the while  fighting off a new urge to be going elsewhere. Something was calling me,  beckoning me to be coming into the full spirit world. But I wanted to  see this wise earth guy fail.    "For a little while conditions stayed the same within that glass. So  thick was the liquid gas in there at first that I could see nothing.  Then it began to clear, and I saw to my surprise that the milky gas was  disappearing because it was being forced in by the rays from the lights  in through the pores into the body itself. As though my form was sucking  it in like a sponge. The scientist and his helper were tense and taut  with excitement. And suddenly my comfortable feeling left me. Until then  it had seemed so smooth and velvety and peaceful drifting around over  their heads, as though lying on a soft, fleecy cloud. But now I felt a  sudden squeezing of my spirit body. Then I was in an agony. Before I 
  That airplane of the slanted wings, the bulbous, almost bulletlike  fuselage, what of it? It was simple, as Kleig looked back at his  memoried glimpse of it. The submarine was a metal fish made with human  hands; the airplane aped the birds. The strange ship which had caused  the destruction of the _Stellar_, was a combination fish and bird--which  merely aped nature a bit further, as anyone who had ever traversed  tropical waters would have instantly recognized.    But what did it portend? What ghastly terrors of Moyen roamed the deeps  of the Atlantic, of the Pacific, the oceans of the world? How close  were some of these to the United States?    The pale eyes of Moyen, he was sure, were already turned toward the  West.    *       *       *       *       *    Prester Kleig sighed as he seated himself beside Carlos Kane. Then Kane  pressed one of the myriad of buttons on the dash, and Kleig lifted his  eyes to peer through the skylight, to where that single press of a  button had set in motion the intricate machinery of the helicopter.    A four-bladed fan lifted on a slender pedestal, sufficiently high above  the surface of the wing for the vanes to be free of the central  propeller. Then, automatically, the vanes became invisible, and the  Mayther lifted from the sandy beach as lightly, and far more straightly,  than any bird.    As the ship climbed away for the skies, and through the transparent  floor the beach and the Atlantic fell away below the ship, a sigh of  relief escaped Kleig. This was living! Up here one was free, if only for  a moment, and the swift wind of flight brushed all cobwebs from the  tired human brain. He watched the slender needle of the altimeter, as it  moved around the face of the dial as steadily as the hands of a clock,  around to thirty thousand, thirty-five, forty.    Then Carlos Kane, every movement as effortless as the flight of the 
   And there was, for the sound of the bell was a signal. The aero-subs,  darting outward from the side of the floating fortress like fish darting  out of seaweed, were plunging up toward the surface of the Atlantic.  Breathlessly the Secret Agents watched them.    They broke water like flying fish, and their wings shot backward from  their notches in the myriad bulbous bodies to click into place in flying  position as the scores of aero-subs took the air above the invisible  hiding places of the mother submarine.    *       *       *       *       *    At eight thousand feet the aero-subs swung into battle formation and, as  though controlled by word of command, they maneuvered there like one  vast machine of a central control--beautiful as the flight of swallows,  deadly as anything that flew.    The Secret Agents swept the cold sweat from their brows, and sighs of  terror escaped them all.    At that moment came the voice, loud in the Secret Room, which Kleig at  least immediately recognized:    "Well, gentlemen, are you satisfied that resistance is futile?"    And Kleig whispered the name, over and over again.    "Moyen! Moyen!"    It was Prester Kleig, Master of the Secret Room, who was the first to  regain control after the nerve-numbing question which, asked in far  Madagascar, was heard by the Agents in the Secret Room.    "No!" he shouted. "No! No! Moyen, in the end we will beat you!"    Only silence answered, but deep in the heart of Prester Kleig sounded a  burst of sardonic laughter--the laughter of Moyen, half-god of Asia.  Then the voice again:    "The attack is beginning, gentlemen! Within an hour you will have  further evidence of the might of Moyen!"          CHAPTER VI    _Vanishing Ships_      Prester Kleig, ordered to Madagascar from the Secret Room, had been  merely an operative, honored above others in that he had been one of 
fired through the propellers.    Bullets smashed into the leading aero-subs, with no apparent effect,  though for a second it seemed that the central aero-sub of the leading  formation hesitated for a moment in flight.    Then, swift as had that black streak flashed from the nose of aero-subs  submerged, a streak darted from the nose of the central aero-sub, and  glistened in the sun like molten gold!    *       *       *       *       *    It touched the youngster who had called for volunteers for his attack  against this strange enemy. It touched his plane--and the plane vanished  instantly, while for a fraction of a second the pilot was visible in his  place, in the posture of sitting, hand on a row of buttons which did not  exist, head forward slightly as he aimed guns that had vanished.    Then the pilot, still living, apparently unhurt, plunged down eight  thousand feet to the sea. The water geysered up as he struck, then  closed over the spot, and the gallant American youngster had become the  first victim in battle of the monsters of Moyen.    Victim of a slender lancet of what seemed to be golden lightning.    "He could have killed the pilot aloft there," came quietly from Munson,  "but he chose to pull his plane away from around him! Their control of  the ray is miraculous!"    As though to confirm the statement of Munson, the leading aero-sub  struck again, a second plane. The plane vanished, but from the spot  where it had flown, not even a bit of metal or of man sufficiently large  to be seen by the delicate recording instruments of Maniel dropped out  of the sky.    The ray of gold was a ray of oblivion if the minions of Moyen willed.          CHAPTER VIII    _Charmion_      "Prester Kleig," came suddenly into the Secret Room the voice of far  distant Moyen, "you will at once make a change in your rules regarding 
         CHAPTER X    "_They Shall Not Pass!_"      Prester Kleig's heartfelt desire, as the American flyers closed with the  first of the aero-subs, was to go out with them and aid them in the  attack against the Moyenites. But he knew, and it was a tacit thing,  that he best served his country from the safe haven of the Secret Room.    As he watched the scenes unfold on the screen of Maniel's genius, with  occasional glances at the somewhat mysterious but profound and  concentrated labors of Maniel, Charmion Kane rose from her place and  came to his side.    Wide-eyed as she watched the joining of battle, she stood there, her  tiny hand encased in the tense one of Prester Kleig.    "You would like to be out there," she murmured. "I know it! But your  country needs you here--and I have already given Carlos!"    Prester Kleig tightened his grip on her hand.    *       *       *       *       *    There was deep, silent understanding between these two, and Prester  Kleig, in fighting against the Moyenites, realized, even above his  realization that his labors were primarily for the benefit of his  country, that he really matched wits with Moyen for the sake of  Charmion. Had anyone asked him whether he would have sacrificed her for  the benefit of his country, it would have been a difficult question to  answer.    He was glad that the question was never asked.    "Yes, beloved," he whispered, "I would like to be out there, but the  greatest need for me is here."    But even so he felt as though he was betraying those intrepid flyers he  was sending to sure death. Yet they had volunteered, and it was the only  way.    Maniel, a gnomelike little man with a Titan's brain, labored with his  calculations, made swiftly concrete his theories, while at the  Sound-and-Vision apparatus excitable General Munson ranged the aerial 
He managed to spend a month each year in the Colorado Rockies angling  for speckled beauties.    Larner was anything but a clock-watcher, but on a certain bright day in  June he was seated in his laboratory doing just that.    "Just five minutes to go," he mused.    It was just 4:25 P. M. He had finished his work, put his affairs in  order, and in five minutes would be free to leave on a much needed and  well earned vacation. His bags were packed and at the station. His  fishing tackle, the pride of his young life, was neatly rolled in oiled  silk and stood near at hand.    "I'll just fill my calabash, take one more quiet smoke, and then for the  mountains and freedom," he told himself. He settled back with his feet  on his desk. He half closed his eyes in solid comfort. Then the bomb  fell and exploded.    *       *       *       *       *    B-r-r-r-r!    The buzzer on his desk buzzed and his feet came off the desk and hit the  floor with a thud. His eyes popped open and the calabash was immediately  laid aside.    That buzzer usually meant business, and it would be his usual luck to  have trouble crash in on him just as he was on the edge of a rainbow  trout paradise.    A messenger was ushered into the room by an assistant. The boy handed  him an envelope, said, "No answer," and departed.    Larner tore open the envelope lazily. He read and then re-read its  contents, while a look of puzzled surprise disturbed his usually placid  countenance. He spread the sheet of paper out on his desk, and for the  tenth time he read:    Confidential.    Memorize this address and destroy this paper:    Tula Bela, 1726 88th Street, West, City of Hesper, Republic of  Pana, Planet Venus. 
 time, when he had recovered from his surprise at the sudden take-off.    "We do not need to know. Our machine is tuned to be attracted by the  planetary force of Venus alone. We could not go elsewhere. A repulsion  ray finds us as we near Venus and protects us against too violent a  landing. We will land on Venus like a feather about three months from  to-night."    The time of the journey through outer space was of little moment save  for one incident. Larner and the other travelers were suddenly and  rather rudely jostled about the rapidly flying craft.    Larner lost his breath but not his speech. "What happened?" he inquired.    "We just automatically dodged a meteor," explained Nern.    *       *       *       *       *    Most of the time of the trip was spent by Larner in listening to  explanations of customs and traditions of the people of the brightest  planet in the universe.    There was a question Larner had desired to ask Nern Bela, yet he  hesitated to do so. Finally one evening during the journey to Venus,  when the travelers had been occupying themselves in a scientific  discussion of comparative evolution on the two planets, Larner saw his  opportunity.    "Why," he asked rather hesitatingly, "did the people of Venus always  remain so small? Why did you not strive more for height? The Japanese,  who are the shortest in stature of earth people, always wanted to be  tall."    "Without meaning any offense," replied Nern, "I must say that it is  characteristic of earth dwellers to want something without knowing any  good reason why they want it. It is perfectly all right for you people  to be tall, but for us it is not so fitting. You see, Venus is smaller  than the earth. Size is comparative. You think we are not tall because  you are used to taller people. Comparatively we are tall enough. In  proportion to the size of our planet we are exactly the right size. We 
recapitulate very briefly what has happened so far:    Unscrupulous Martian brigands were scheming for Johnny Grantline's  secret radium-ore treasure, dug out of the Moon and waiting there to be  picked up by the _Planetara_ on her return trip from Mars.    The _Planetara_ left, bound for Mars, some ten days away. Suspicious  interplanetary passengers were aboard: Miko and Moa, a brother and a  sister of Mars; Sir Arthur Coniston, a mysterious Englishman; Ob Hahn, a  Venus mystic. And small, effeminate George Prince and his sister, Anita.  Love, I think, was born instantly between Anita and me. I found all too  soon that Miko, the sinister giant from Mars, also desired her.    [Illustration]    As we neared the Moon we received Grantline's secret message: "Stop for  ore on your return voyage. Success beyond wildest hopes!" But I soon  discovered that an eavesdropper in an invisible cloak had overheard it!    Soon afterwards Miko accidentally murdered a person identified as Anita  Prince.    Then, in the confusion that resulted, Miko struck his great blow. The  crew of the _Planetara_, secretly in his pay, rose up and killed the  captain and all the officers but Snap Dean, the radio-helio operator,  and myself.    I was besieged in the chart-room. George Prince leaped in upon me--and  put his arms around me. I looked at him closer--only to discover it was  Anita, disguised as her brother! It was her brother, George, who had  been killed! George had been in the brigands' confidence--thus Anita was  able to spy for us.    Quickly we plotted. I would surrender to her, Anita Prince, whom the  brigands thought was George Prince. Together we might possibly be able,  with Snap's help, to turn the tide, and reclaim the _Planetara_.    I was taken to my stateroom and locked there until Miko the brigand  leader should come to dispose of me. But I cared not what had  happened--Anita was alive!          CHAPTER XIV    _The Brigand Leader_      The giant Miko stood confronting me. He slid my cubby door closed behind  him. He stood with his head towering close against my ceiling. His cloak 
 leaders. With them felled, and with us in control of the turret and the  helio-room we could force the crew to stay at their posts. There were,  Anita said, no navigators among Miko's crew. They would not dare oppose  us.    "But it should be done at once, Anita. In a few hours we will be at the  asteroid."    "Yes. I will go now--try and get the weapons."    "Where is Snap?"    "Still in the helio-room. One of the crew guards him."    Coniston was roaming the ship; he was still loitering on the deck,  watching our door. Hahn was in the turret. The morning watch of the crew  were at their posts in the hull-corridors; the stewards were preparing a  morning meal. There were nine members of subordinates altogether, Anita  had calculated. Six of them were in Miko's pay; the other three--our own  men who had not been killed in the fighting--had joined the brigands.    "And Dr. Frank, Anita?"    He was in the lounge. All the passengers were herded there, with Miko  and Moa alternating on guard.    "I will arrange it with Venza," Anita whispered swiftly. "She will tell  the others. Dr. Frank knows about it now. He thinks it can be done."    *       *       *       *       *    The possibility of it swept me anew. The brigands were of necessity  scattered singly about the ship. One by one, creeping under cover of an  invisible cloak, I could fell them, and replace them without alarming  the others. My thoughts leaped to it. We would strike down the guard in  the helio-room. Release Snap. At the turret we could assail Hahn, and  replace him with Snap.    Coniston's voice outside broke in upon us. "Prince."    He was coming forward. Anita stood in the doorway. "I have the figures,  Coniston. By God, this Haljan is with us! And clever! We think it will  total a hundred and thirty millions. What a stake!" 
Then Moa's bulk blocked the doorway. She faced me.    "Sit where you are, Gregg." She turned and closed the door upon us. "I  am not afraid of you. Should I be?"    "No," I said.    She came and sat down beside me. "If you should attempt to leave this  room, the stern look-out has orders to bore you through."    "I have no intention of leaving the room," I retorted. "I do not want to  commit suicide."    "I thought you did. You seem minded in such a fashion. Gregg, why are  you so foolish?"    *       *       *       *       *    I remained silent.    "Why?" she demanded.    I said carefully, "This treasure--you are many who will divide it. You  have all these men on the _Planetara_. And in Ferrok-Shahn, others, no  doubt."    I paused. Would she tell me? Could I make her talk of that other brigand  ship which Miko had said was waiting on Mars? I wondered if he had been  able to signal it. The distance from here to Mars was great; yet upon  other voyages Snap's signals had gotten through. My heart sank at the  thought. Our situation here was desperate enough. The passengers soon  would be cast upon the asteroid: there would be left only Snap, Anita  and myself. We might recapture the ship, but I doubted it now. My  thoughts were turning to our arrival upon the Moon. We three might,  perhaps, be able to thwart the attack upon Grantline, hold the brigands  off until help from the Earth might come.    But with another brigand ship, fully manned and armed, coming from Mars,  the condition would be immeasurably worse. Grantline had some twenty  men, and his camp, I knew, would be reasonably fortified. I knew, too,  that Johnny Grantline would fight to his last man.    Moa was saying, "I would like to tell you our plans, Gregg."    Her gaze was on my face. Keen eyes, but they were luminous now--an 
 close beneath us. Clouds were overhead, white masses with blue sky  behind them. A day of brilliant sunlight. But soon, with our forward  cruising, it was night. The sunlight dropped beneath the sharply convex  horizon; the sea and the land went purple.    A night of brilliant stars; the Earth was a blazing blue-red point of  light. The heavens visibly were revolving; in an hour or so it would be  daylight again.    On the forward deck now Coniston had appeared, commanding half a dozen  of the crew. They were carrying up caskets of food and the equipment  which was to be given the marooned passengers. And making ready the  disembarking incline, loosening the seals of the side-dome windows.    Sternward on the deck, by the lounge oval, I could see Miko standing.  And occasionally the roar of his voice at the passengers sounded.    *       *       *       *       *    My vagrant thought flung back into Earth's history. Like this, ancient  travelers of the surface of the sea were herded by pirates to walk the  plank, or put ashore, marooned upon some fair desert island of the  tropic Spanish main.    Hahn came mounting our turret incline. "All is well, Gregg Haljan?"    "Get to your work," Moa told him sharply. "We land in an hour-quadrant."    He retreated, joining the bustle and confusion which now was beginning  on the deck. It struck me--could I turn that confusion to account? Would  it be possible, now at the last moment, to attack these brigands? Snap  still sat outside the helio-room doorway. But his guard was alert, with  upraised projector. And that guard, I saw, in his position high  amidships, commanded all the deck.    And I saw too, as the passengers now were herded in a line from the  lounge oval, that Miko had roped and bound all of the men. And a  clanking chain connected them. They came like a line of convicts,  marching forward, and stopped on the open deck-space near the base of 
"We don't need that, whatever it is!"    He rubbed his knuckles where the violet waves had tinged them, and  turned grimly back to Snap.    "Where are your Gamma ray mirrors? If the treasure is exposed--"    This Martian's knowledge was far greater than we believed. He grinned  sardonically at Anita. "If our treasure is on this hemisphere, Prince,  we should pick up Gamma rays? Don't you think so? Or is Grantline so  cautious it will all be protected?"    Anita spoke in a careful, throaty drawl. "The Gamma rays came plain  enough when we passed here on the way out."    "You should know," grinned Miko. "An expert eavesdropper, Prince--I will  say that for you. Come Dean, try something else. By God, if Grantline  does not signal us, I will be likely to blame you--my patience is  shortening. Shall we go closer, Haljan?"    "I don't think it would help," I said.    He nodded. "Perhaps not. Are we checked?"    "Yes." We were poised, very nearly motionless. "If you wish an advance,  I can ring it. But we need a surface destination now."    "True, Haljan." He stood thinking. "Would a zed-ray penetrate those  crater-cliffs? Tycho, for instance, at this angle?"[B]    "It might," Snap agreed. "You think he may be on the Northern inner side  of Tycho?"    "He may be anywhere," said Miko shortly.    "If you think that," Snap persisted, "suppose we swing the _Planetara_  over the South Pole. Tycho, viewed from there--"    "And take another quarter-day of time?" Miko sneered. "Flash on your  zed-ray; help him hook it up, Haljan."      [B] An allusion to the use of the zed-ray light for making  spectro-photographs of what might be behind obscuring rock masses,  similar to the old-style X-ray.    *       *       *       *       *    I moved to the lens-box of the spectroheliograph. It seemed that Snap 
   All so abnormal, irrational, disturbing to human senses. With the mining  work over, an irritability grew upon Grantline's men. And perhaps since  the human mind is so wonderful, elusive a thing, there lay upon these  men an indefinable sense of impending disaster. Johnny Grantline felt  it. He thought about it now as he sat in the room corner watching Wilks  being forced into the plaget-game, and he found it strong within him.  Unreasonable, ominous depression! Barring the accident which had  disabled his little space-ship when they reached this small crater hole,  his expedition had gone well. His instruments, and the information he  had from the former explorers, had picked up the ore-vein with a scant  month of search.    *       *       *       *       *    The vein had now been exhausted; but the treasure was here. Nothing was  left but to wait for the _Planetara_. The men were talking of that now.    "She ought to be well mid-way from here to Ferrok-Shahn by now. When do  you figure she'll be back here, and signal us?"    "Twenty days. Give her another five now to Mars, and five in port.  That's ten. We'll pick her signals in three weeks, mark me."    "Three weeks! Just give me three weeks of reasonable sunrise and sunset!  This cursed Moon! You mean, Williams, next daylight."    "Hah! He's inventing a Lunar language. You'll be a Moon-man yet, if you  live here long enough."    Olaf Swenson, the big blond fellow from the Scandia fiords, came and  flung himself down by Grantline.    "Ay tank they bane without not enough to do, Commander. If the ore yust  would not give out--"    "Three weeks--it isn't very long, Ollie."    "No. Maybe not."    From across the room somebody was saying, "If the _Comet_ hadn't smashed  on us, damn me but I'd ask the Commander to let some of us take her  back. The discarded equipment could go."   
  The questions were swept away by the necessity for action. Snap was  rigging the hand-compressors. If he could get the pressure back in the  tanks....    I swung on Coniston. "You armed?"    "Yes." He was white-faced and confused, but not in a panic. He showed me  his heat-ray cylinder. "What do you want me to do?"    "Round up the crew. Get all you can. Bring them here to man these  pumps."    He dashed away. Snap shouted after him. "Kill them down if they argue!"    Miko's voice sounded from the turret call grid: "Falling! Haljan, you  can see it now! Check us!"    I did not answer that. I pumped with Snap.    Desperate moments. Or was it an hour? Coniston brought the men. He stood  over them with menacing weapon.    We had all the pumps going. The pressure rose a little in the tanks.  Enough to shift a bow-plate. I tried it. The plate slowly clicked into a  new combination. A gravity repulsion just in the bow-tip.    *       *       *       *       *    I signaled Miko. "Have we stopped swinging?"    "No. But slower."    I could feel it, that lurch of the gravity. But not steady now. A limp.  The tendency of our bow was to stay up.    "More pressure, Snap."    "Yes."    One of the crew rebelled, tried to bolt from the room. "God, we'll  crash, caught in here!"    Coniston shot him down.    I shifted another bow-plate. Then two in the stern. The stern-plates  seemed to move more readily than the others.    "Run all the stern-plates," Snap advised.    I tried it. The lurching stopped. Miko called. "We're bow down.  Falling!"    But not falling free. The Moon-gravity pull upon us was more than half  neutralized.    "I'll go up, Snap, and try the engines. You don't mind staying down? 
 was only Anita.    Life is very strange! The gate to the shining garden of our love seemed  swinging wide to let us in. Yet I recall that a vague fear still lay on  me. A premonition?    I felt a touch on my arm. A bloated helmet visor was thrust near my own.  I saw Snap's face peering at me.    "Grantline thinks we should return to the _Planetara_. Might find some  of them alive."    Grantline touched me. "It's only humanity."    "Yes," I said.    We went back. Some ten of us--a line of grotesque figures bounding with  slow, easy strides over the jagged, rock-strewn plain. Our lights danced  before us.    The _Planetara_ came at last into view. My ship. Again that pang swept  me as I saw her. This, her last resting place. She lay here in her open  tomb, shattered, broken, unbreathing. The lights on her were  extinguished. The Erentz system had ceased to pulse--the heart of the  dying ship, for a while beating faintly, but now at rest.    We left the two girls with some of Grantline's men at the admission  port. Snap, Grantline and I, with three others, went inside. There still  seemed to be air, but not enough so that we dared remove our helmets.    It was dark inside the wrecked ship. The corridors were black; the hull  control-rooms were dimly illumined with Earth-light straggling through  the windows.    This littered tomb! Already cold and silent with death. We stumbled over  a fallen figure. A member of the crew.    *       *       *       *       *    Grantline straightened from examining him.    "Dead."    Earth-light fell on the horrible face. Puffed flesh, bloated red from  the blood which had oozed from its pores in the thinning air. I looked  away.    We prowled further. Hahn lay dead in the pump-room.    The body of Coniston should have been near here. We did not see it. 
time appointed."    *       *       *       *       *    She was staring at him still, half in fear, half in wonder, yet she  could not feel any doubt of the man's miraculous powers. Somehow, while  he talked to her and rested those cold eyes upon her, she was under the  spell of the great scientist. Her son, before the trouble into which he  had been dragged by the professor, had often hinted at the abilities of  Ramsey Burr, given her the idea that his employer was practically a  necromancer, yet a magician whose advanced scientific knowledge was  correct and explainable in the light of reason.    Yes, Allen had talked to her often when he was at home, resting from his  labors with Professor Burr. He had spoken of the new electricity  discovered by the famous man, and also told his mother that Burr had  found a method of separating atoms and then transforming them into a  form of radio-electricity so that they could be sent in radio waves, to  designated points. And she now remembered--the swift trial and  conviction of Allen on the charge of murder had occupied her so deeply  that she had forgotten all else for the time being--that her son had  informed her quite seriously that Professor Ramsey Burr would soon be  able to transport human beings by radio.    "Neither of us will be injured in any way by the change," said Burr  calmly. "It is possible for me now to break up human flesh, send the  atoms by radio-electricity, and reassemble them in their proper form by  these special transformers and atom filters."    Mrs. Baker took all the apparatus presented her by the professor. She  ventured the thought that it might be better to perform the experiment  at once, instead of waiting until the last minute, but this Professor  Burr waved aside as impossible. He needed the extra time, he said, and  there was no hurry.    She glanced about the room, and her eye took in the giant switches of 
 Doctor's desk. "I haven't got a case up my sleeve this time; I just came  in for a little chat."    "All right, glad to see you. Read that latest volume of the  _Zeitschrift_ for a while. That article of Von Beyer's has got me  guessing, all right."    Carnes picked up the indicated volume and settled himself to read. The  Doctor bent over his apparatus. Time and again he made minute  adjustments and gave vent to muttered exclamations of annoyance at the  results he obtained. Half an hour later he rose from his chair with a  sigh and turned to his visitor.    "What do you think of Von Beyer's alleged discovery?" he asked the  operative.    *       *       *       *       *    "It's too deep for me, Doctor," replied the operative. "All that I can  make out of it is that he claims to have discovered a new element named  'lunium,' but hasn't been able to isolate it yet. Is there anything  remarkable about that? It seems to me that I have read of other new  elements being discovered from time to time."    "There is nothing remarkable about the discovery of a new element by the  spectroscopic method," replied Dr. Bird. "We know from Mendeleff's  table that there are a number of elements which we have not discovered  as yet, and several of the ones we know were first detected by the  spectroscope. The thing which puzzles me is that so brilliant a man as  Von Beyer claims to have discovered it in the spectra of the moon. His  name, lunium, is taken from Luna, the moon."    "Why not the moon? Haven't several elements been first discovered in the  spectra of stars?"    "Certainly. The classic example is Lockyer's discovery of an orange line  in the spectra of the sun in 1868. No known terrestrial element gave  such a line and he named the new element which he deduced helium, from  Helos, the sun. The element helium was first isolated by Ramsey some 
  "When did he start to sleep there?"    "As soon as it was completed."    "And all the time the windows have been of fused quartz?"    "No. They were glazed at first, but the glass was removed and the fused  quartz substituted at my suggestion about two months ago, just before  this trouble started."    "Thank you, Admiral. You have given me several things to think about. My  ideas are a little too nebulous to share as yet but I think that I can  give you one piece of very sound advice. The President is spending a  very restless night. If you would remove him from the solarium and get  him to lie down in a room which is glazed with ordinary glass, and pull  down the shades so that he will be in the dark, I think that he will  pass a better night."    *       *       *       *       *    Admiral Clay looked keenly into the piercing black eyes of the Doctor.    "I know something of you by reputation, Bird," he said slowly, "and I  will follow your advice. Will you tell me why you make this particular  suggestion?"    "So that I can work in that solarium to-night without interruption,"  replied Dr. Bird. "I have some tests which I wish to carry out while it  is still dark. If my results are negative, forget what I have told you.  If they yield any information, I will be glad to share it with you at  the proper time. Now get the President out of that solarium and tell me  when the coast is clear."    The Admiral donned a dressing gown and stepped out of the room. He  returned in fifteen minutes.    "The solarium is at your disposal, Doctor," he announced. "Shall I  accompany you?"    "If you wish," assented Dr. Bird as he picked up his apparatus and  strode out of the room.    In the solarium he glanced quickly around, noting the position of each 
 me examine it.    "By means of certain fluorescent substances which I used, I found that  your pillow was being bathed in a flood of ultra-violet light, and the  fluoro-spectroscope soon told me that lunium emanations were present in  large quantities. These rays were not coming to you directly from their  source, but one of the windows of the State, War and Navy Building was  being used as a reflector. I located the approximate source of the ray  by means of an improvised apparatus, and we surrounded the place.  Stokowsky was killed while attempting to escape. I guess that is about  all there is to it."    "Thank you, Doctor," said the President. "I would be interested in a  description of the apparatus which he used to produce this effect."    *       *       *       *       *    "The apparatus was quite simple, Sir. It was merely a large collector of  moonlight, which was thrown after collection onto a lunium plate. The  resultant emanations were turned into a parallel beam by a parabolic  reflector and focused, through a rock crystal lens with an extremely  long focal length, onto your pillow."    "Then Stokowsky had isolated Von Beyer's new element?" asked the  President.    "I am still in doubt whether it is a new element or merely an allotropic  modification of the common element, cadmium. The plate which he used has  a very peculiar property. When moonlight, or any other reflected light  of the same composition falls on it, it acts on the ray much as the  button of a Roentgen tube acts on a cathode ray. As the cathode ray is  absorbed and an entirely new ray, the X-ray, is given off by the button,  just so is the reflected moonlight absorbed and a new ray of  ultra-violet given off. This is the ray which Von Beyer detected. I  thought that I could catch traces of Von Beyer's lines in my  spectroscope, and I think now that it is due to a trace of lunium in the 
