  ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE-NOVELS  MONTHLY, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, RANGELAND LOVE STORY  MAGAZINE, WESTERN ADVENTURES, and FOREST AND STREAM.    _More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand for  Clayton Magazines._    *       *       *       *       *    VOL. III, No. 1       CONTENTS       JULY, 1930      COVER DESIGN    _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "Earth, the Marauder."_      BEYOND THE HEAVISIDE LAYER      CAPT. S. P. MEEK                     5    _For Eighty Vertical Miles Carpenter and Bond Blasted Their  Way--Only to Be Trapped by the Extraordinary Monsters of the  Heaviside Layer._      EARTH, THE MARAUDER      ARTHUR J. BURKS                            18    _Out of Her Orbit Sped the Teeming Earth--A Marauding Planet Bent on  Starry Conquest._ (Beginning a Three-part Novel.)      FROM AN AMBER BLOCK      TOM CURRY                                  50    _A Giant Amber Block at Last Gives Up Its Living, Ravenous Prey._      THE TERROR OF AIR-LEVEL SIX      HARL VINCENT                       62 
and in a few moments I felt quite normal.    "How fast are we going?" I asked.    "Only two hundred miles an hour," he replied. "We will reach the layer  in plenty of time at this rate and I don't want to jam into it. You can  get up now."    I rose, moved over to the observation glass in the floor, and looked  down. We were already five or ten miles above the earth and were  ascending rapidly. I could still detect the great circle of reflectors  with which our way was to be opened.    "How can you tell where these heat beams are when they are turned on?" I  asked. "Infra-red rays are not visible, and we will soon be out of sight  of the reflectors."    "I forgot to mention that I am having a small portion of visible red  rays mixed with the infra-red so that we can spot them. I have a radio  telephone here, working on my private wavelength, so that I can direct  operations from here as well as from the ground--in fact, better. If  you're cold, turn on the heater."    *       *       *       *       *    The friction of the flyer against the air had so far made up for the  decreasing temperature of the air surrounding us, but a glance at the  outside thermometer warned me that his suggestion was a wise one. I  turned a valve which diverted a small portion of our exhaust through a  heating coil in the flyer. It was hard to realize that I was actually in  a rocket space ship, the second one to be flown and that, with the  exception of the ill-fated Hadley, farther from the earth than any man  had been before. There was no sensation of movement in that hermetically  sealed flyer, and, after the first few moments, the steady drone of the  rocket motor failed to register on my senses. I was surprised to see  that there was no trail of detritus behind us. 
feebly out a few feet toward us and then stopped. We dropped the ship a  few feet but the amoeba did not follow. Jim glanced at the altimeter.    "Just as I thought," he exclaimed. "We are about forty-five miles above  the earth and already the air is so dense that the thing cannot move  lower. They are fashioned for existence in the regions of space and in  even the most rarified air they are helpless. There is no chance of one  ever reaching the surface of the earth without years of gradual  acclimation, and even if it did, it would be practically immobile. In a  few years the layer will flow enough to plug the hole I have made, but  even so, I'll build a couple of space flyers equipped with  disintegrating rays as soon as we get down and station them alongside  the hole to wipe out any of that space vermin which tries to come  through. Let's go home. We've put in a good day's work."    Hundreds of the purple amoeba have been destroyed by the guarding ships  during the past five years. The hole is filling in as Jim predicted, and  in another ten years the earth will be as securely walled in as it ever  was. But in the mean time, no one knows what unrevealed horrors space  holds, and the world will never rest entirely easy until the slow  process of time again heals the broken protective layer.    *       *       *       *       *    Everyone Is Invited    _To_ "_Come Over in_    'THE READERS' CORNER'"!    *       *       *       *       *    [Illustration: _The men of Cleric were surrounding Jaska._]          Earth, the Marauder    BEGINNING A THREE-PART NOVEL    _By Arthur J. Burks_  
roof. There was little that could be seen, for always the mighty, cold  winds, ruffed with flurries of snow and particles of ice, swept over  this artificial roof of the world. Here and there huge portions of the  area within the range of his normal vision were swept clear and clean of  snow and ice--and looked bluely, bitterly cold and hostile.    Without the Sarka-Belts, people who ventured forth from their hives  would instantly freeze to the consistency of marble in those winds and  storms. For the people of Earth had built their monster habitation  toward the stars until they reached up into the altitude of perpetual  cold.    Only under that gleaming roof was there warmth. Many of the men, and  women, and children who had lost in the now century-old fight for  survival had merely been tossed out of the hives. A painless, swift  death--but each death, in a world so highly specialized that each grown  person fitted into his niche naturally and easily, was a distinct loss,  not much, perhaps, but enough for the loss to be felt.    *       *       *       *       *    Sarka, closing his eyes for a moment as though to shut out a horror  which in his mind he could visualize, turned back to the Revolving  Beryl, in which he kept in constant touch with all parts of the world at  will.    "It _must_ be done!" he muttered. "I must take action. It means the loss  of thousands, perhaps millions of lives, in such a war as the mind of  man has not hitherto conceived; but for a Cause greater than any which  has ever hitherto been an excuse for armed conflict. But I must discuss  it with the Spokesmen of the Gens!"    On the table before Sarka was a row of vari-colored lights, whose source  was beneath the floor of the laboratory, out of the heart of the  master-mountain, part of the intricate machinery of this laboratory  which had been almost twenty centuries in the perfecting. In the 
*       *       *       *       *    For the moment it seemed that Dalis would die there of his seething  anger; but he answered no word for all of a minute. Then:    "This mad grandson of yours has made me a prisoner, until such time as I  concur in all his plans!"    "If he says you are a prisoner, that you are!" snapped the elder Sarka  angrily. "Son, what is this thing you plan?"    "For almost a century," replied Sarka, "I have been planning this. I  knew, when father told me that Dalis had sworn he was able to halt for a  moment the headlong flight of the Earth in its orbit, that Dalis did not  lie or bluff! In your day, even, that was possible, and I continued with  the knotty problem until I deduced the manner of its doing. I, too, can  halt the Earth's rotation, or throw it out of its orbit! I took your  idea, Dalis, _independently_ of you, knowing you would never reveal  your secret to a Sarka, and amplified it until I can not only halt the  Earth in its orbit, but throw it out of its orbit entirely!"    For a moment Sarka studied the angry face of Dalis, and his own was very  thoughtful.    "Dalis," he said at last, "I wish you were not our enemy! For you are a  genius, and the world has need of all the knowledge of such genius as it  possesses. Why do you oppose us?"    "Because," snarled Dalis, "I guessed something of your plan that I do  not like! I do not like the Sarkas, never have; but neither have the  Sarkas any love for me! When you spoke to us all, I knew that somehow  you had discovered the secret! You spoke, when you delivered your  ultimatum, of attacking the Moon, and after it Mars! You also granted to  my Gens what would have seemed a great honor--to anyone who did not  fathom the tricky scheming of the Sarkas!--that of being the first into 
himself his faith in Jaska, gave it back to him in some measure, and by  so much lightened the weight upon his heart. For now his  responsibilities were greater than they had ever been before, and he had  need of all his faculties.    "She'll come back, or somehow communicate with me, and explain  everything," he told himself. But he refused to ponder on how Dalis the  betrayer had gained possession of the secret sign manual he had believed  known only to Jaska and himself. That, too, might be explained  satisfactorily, for Dalis was cunning.    From the side of the laboratory opposite the Revolving Beryl came a soft  tinkling sound, like the striking of a musical bell. Sarka rose wearily,  strode to the wall, where a narrow aperture opened, in which rested Food  Capsules sufficient for one meal for three men. He smiled wryly. They  knew then, the Food Conservers deep in the earth as they were, that  Sarka the First was no more--and sent food for three men! All the world  knew, perhaps, yet no single person had raised voice in protest--or if  any had, the mounting murmur of the Beryls had drowned it out.    *       *       *       *       *    "Sarka!" spoke Dalis suddenly. "At what time do you estimate that the  flight of the Earth in its orbit will be materially affected?"    "It is being affected this moment, Dalis, shifting the Ovidum store!"  said Sarka shortly. "Within twelve hours we will be in readiness to  start our journey!"    Remaining absolutely motionless within the domed laboratory, it was now  possible to feel the ever so slight motion, not only of the laboratory,  but of the mountain crest upon which it rested. Not so much a to-and-fro  motion as a round-about motion.    Just as the slightest sound flies outward through space endlessly, and  the slightest vibration moves outward until the end of time and of  space, Sarka knew that the vibration set up by the Beryl, slight though 
of the Earth lying between Ohi and the North Pole, from the heart of  what had once been part of the Pacific Ocean.    So many of them were there that when they were free of the Earth,  flashing outward at two thousand miles an hour, it was impossible to see  the Moon or those formidable Aircars--and still, out of the heart of the  area of the Gens of Dalis, came other myriads, each flight waiting only  for the preceding flight to clear!    The green, tight fitting clothing of the Gens of Dalis, each individual  wearing the yellow star of the Spokesman of the Gens! A marvelous,  awe-inspiring sight!    And this was but a single area, and the earth was divided into twelve  such areas, some smaller, none larger, which showed Sarka for the first  time a hint of the mighty man-power, and fighting woman-power which he  controlled. However, once free of the Earth, conduct of the fight would  be in the hands of the Spokesman--Jaska, acting for Dalis.    *       *       *       *       *    Sarka turned to Dalis, his eyes flashing.    "Does it not thrill you, O Dalis?" he demanded. "Do you not wish now  that you had gone out with your people as their leader?"    "They follow Jaska like sheep," he stated with a snort. "But wait! My  Gens seem invincible, because it bulks between us and the Aircars of the  Moon-Dwellers! Wait, see how the battle goes! The Gens may yet have need  of Dalis!"    Sarka studied those outgoing hosts, which were dwindling away to mere  specks with vast speed, for through the cordons and cordons of them he  could now see the Aircars more plainly. It was still possible, when one  looked through the Micro-Telescopes, to see the slim figure of Jaska  leading the attack. She was in the vanguard of the Gens of Dalis leading  her people onward as though she had been born to command--utterly  fearless.    "And I was small enough," whispered Sarka, "to doubt you! I even told 
anything, the coolies. I remember working once with a crew of them that  thought--"    The professor stopped suddenly, for his daughter had uttered a little  cry of alarm. He felt her hand upon his arm, and turned toward her.    "What is it, dear?" he asked.    She was pointing toward the biggest amber block, and her eyes were wide  open and showed she had seen something, or imagined that she had seen  something, that frightened her.    *       *       *       *       *    Professor Young followed the direction of her finger. He saw that she  was staring at the black heart of the amber block; but when he looked he  could see nothing but the vague, irregular outline of the inky  substance.    "What is it, dear?" asked Young again.    "I--I thought I saw it looking out, eyes that stared at us--"    The girl broke off, laughed shortly, and added, "I suppose it was Mr.  Leffler's talking. There's nothing there now."    "Probably the Manchurian devil shows itself only to you," said her  father jokingly. "Well, be careful, dear. If it takes a notion to jump  out at you, call me and I'll exorcise it for you."    Betty blushed and laughed again. She looked at Marable, expecting to see  a smile of derision on the young man's face, but his expression was  grave.    The light from above was diminishing; outside sounded the roar of  home-going traffic.    "Well, we must go home," said Professor Young. "There's a hard and  interesting day ahead of us to-morrow, and I want to read Orling's new  work on matrices before we begin chipping at the amber."    Young turned on his heel and strode toward the locker at the end of the  room where he kept his coat and hat. Betty, about to follow him, was  aware of a hand on her arm, and she turned to find Marable staring at  her.  
and Betty Young left the restaurant and started back toward the museum.  Her father was still at his table.    They walked up the driveway entrance, and then Marable uttered an  exclamation. "Something's wrong," he said.    There was a small crowd of people collected on the steps. The outer  doors, instead of being open as usual, were closed and guards stood  peering out.    Marable and Betty were admitted, after they had pushed their way to the  doors.    "Museum's closed to the public, sir," replied a guard to Marable's  question.    "Why?" asked Marable.    "Somethin's happened up in the paleontological laboratories," answered  the guard. "Dunno just what, but orders come to clear the rooms and not  let anybody in but members of the staff, sir."    Marable hurried forward. Betty was at his heels. "Please get yourself a  gun," she said, clutching his arm and holding him back.    "All right. I'll borrow one from a guard."    He returned to the front doors, and came back, slipping a large pistol  into his side pocket.    "I want you to wait here," he said.    "No. I'm going with you."    "Please," he said. "As your superior, I order you to remain downstairs."    The girl shrugged. She allowed him to climb the stairs to the first  floor, and then she hurried back in search of Smythe.    *       *       *       *       *    Smythe obtained a gun for her, and as she did not wish to wait for the  slow elevator, she ran up the steps. Smythe could not tell her  definitely what had occurred in the upper laboratory that had caused the  museum to be closed for the day.    Her heart beating swiftly, Betty Young hurried up the second flight of  stairs to the third floor. A workman, whom the girl recognized as a  manual laborer in the paleontological rooms, came running down, passing  
Hartley Jones grinned in his engaging way. "You'd be good company," he  parried; "and, what's more, I think the trip would do you a lot of good.  You look all shot to pieces."    "Forget it," I laughed. "It's just the heat. And I'll have to leave you  here, Hart. Drop in and see us, will you? The wife was asking for you  only yesterday."    "Jack, dear," my wife greeted me at the door of my modest suburban home,  "Mr. Preston just called, and he wants you to call him right back."    "Oh, Lord," I groaned, "can't I forget the office for one evening?"  Preston was manager of the concern for which I worked.    Nevertheless, though our two fine youngsters were clamoring for their  dinner, I made the telephone call at once.    "Makely," came the voice of the boss, when the connection was completed,  "I want you to take the night plane for Frisco. Hate to ask you, but it  must be done. Townley is sick and someone has to take those Canadian Ex.  bonds out to Farnsworth. You're the only one to do it, and after you get  there, you can start on that vacation you need. Take a month if you  wish."    The thought of Hartley Jones' offer flashed through my mind. "But have  you read of the loss of the NY-18?" I asked Preston.    "I have, Makely. There'll be another hundred a month in your check, too,  to make up for the worry of your family. But the government is sending  thirty Secret Service men along on the SF-22, which leaves to-night. In  addition, there will be a convoy of seven fighting planes, so there is  not likely to be a repetition of the previous disasters."    That hundred a month sounded mighty good, for expenses had been mounting  rapidly of late. "All right, Mr. Preston," I agreed. "I will be at the  airport before midnight. But how about the bonds?"    "I'll drive around after dinner and deliver them to you. And thanks for  your willingness, Makely. You'll not be sorry."    *       *       *       *       * 
tremendous campaign that is being waged against our country by a clever  and powerful enemy. And I feel that our work in connection with the  unraveling of the mystery and overcoming the enemy or enemies is but  begun. It's a cinch that the thing is organized by human minds and is  not any sort of a freak of the elements. Our work is cut out for us, all  right, and I wish you would stick to George and me through the mess.  Will you?"    "Sure," I agreed, readily enough. "After these bonds are delivered I am  free for a month."    "Ha! Ha!" cackled George, without mirth. "A month! We're doggoned lucky  if we get to the bottom of this in a year."    "Nonsense!" snapped Hart, who was considerably upset by the failure to  locate the source of the disastrous rays. "There is nothing supernatural  about this, and anything that can be explained on a scientific basis can  be run to earth in short order. These rays are man-made and, as such,  can be accounted for by man. Our greatest scientists must be put to work  on the problem at once--in fact, they have quite probably been called in  by the government already."    *       *       *       *       *    He was maneuvering the _Pioneer_ to a landing on the broad field of the  San Francisco airport. Hundreds of idle planes of all sizes lined the  field, and, unmindful of the earliness the hour, a great crowd was  collected in expectation of sensational reports from the occupants of  arriving ships. The unusual construction of the _Pioneer_ attracted  considerable attention and it was with difficulty that the police kept  back the crowd when she rolled to a stop near the office of the local  government supervisor. We hustled inside and were greeted by that  official with open arms.    "Glory be!" he exclaimed. "Hart Jones and the _Pioneer_. Every airport  in the land has been on the lookout for you all night. It was feared you 
have replied to their ultimatum and have told them we will have our  answer ready within the appointed time, but it is already agreed between  the nations of the World Alliance that our reply is to be negative.  Better far that we submit to the utter destruction of our civilization  than agree to their terms."    "I believe I can do it, Mr. Secretary," was Hart Jones' simple comment.  "At least I will try. But you must let me have an experienced astronomer  at once with whom to consult."    "Astronomer?"    "Yes--immediately. I have a theory, but am not enough of a student of  astronomy myself to work it out."    "You shall have the best man in the Air Naval Observatory at once."  Secretary Simler chewed his cigar savagely. "And anything else you might  need," he concluded.    "There is nothing else, sir." Hart turned from the great men who  regarded him solemnly, some with expressions of hope, others with plain  distrust written large on their countenances.    *       *       *       *       *    They left in silence and we returned to our work with renewed vigor.  Within an hour there arrived by fast plane an undersized,  thick-spectacled man who presented himself as Professor Linquist  from the government observatory. He was immediately taken into the  office by Hart and the two remained behind closed doors for the best  part of four hours.    Meanwhile the hangar hummed with activity as usual. We in the chemical  laboratory were engaged in compounding the high explosive used as fuel  in the _Pioneer_. This was being compressed to its absolute limit and  was stored in long steel cylinders in the form of a liquid of extremely  low temperature. These cylinders were at once transferred to a special  steel vault where the temperature was kept at a low enough point to  prevent expansion and consequent loss of the explosive, not to speak of  the danger of destroying the entire lot of us in its escape. 
It must be that I frightened him by my answering stare, for he backed  away from me in apparent fear. I noticed that the doctor was rummaging  in his bag. I know I did not speak, did not cry out, for my tongue clove  to the roof of my mouth. It seemed I must go mad. The professor still  backed away from me; then, wiry little athlete that he was, he sprang  directly for my knees in a beautiful football tackle. I remember that  point clearly and how I admired his agility at the time. I remember the  glint of a small instrument in the doctor's hand. Then all was  blackness.    Eight days later, they tell me it was, I returned to painful  consciousness in a hospital bed. But let me skip the agony of mind I  experienced then. Suffice it to say that, when I was able, I set forth  for Washington. Hart Jones was there and he had sent for me. But I took  little interest in the going; did not even bother to speculate as to the  reason for his summons. I had devoured the news during my convalescence  and now, more than two weeks after the destruction of the Terror, I knew  the extent of the damage wrought upon our earth by those deadly green  light pencils we had seen issuing from the huge ring up there in the  skies. The horror of it all was fresh in my mind, but my own private  horror overshadowed all.    *       *       *       *       *    I was glad that Hart had been so signally honored by the World Peace  Board, that he was now the most famous and popular man in the entire  world. He deserved it all and more. But what cared I--I who had done  least of all to help in his great work--that the Terror had been found  where it buried itself in the sand of the Sahara when falling to earth?  What cared I that the discoveries made in the excavating of the huge 
  "But, sir!" I put in eagerly. I was young and rash in those days. "Who  are they, to make war against a united Universe?"    "I have visited your planet, Earth," said Kellen, smiling very faintly.  "You have a tiny winged insect you call _bee_. Is it not so?"    "Yes."    "The bee is a tiny thing, of little strength. A man, a little child,  might crush one to death between a thumb and finger. But the bee may  sting before he is crushed, and the sting may linger on for days, a  painful and unpleasant thing. Is that not so?"    "I see, sir," I replied, somewhat abashed before the tolerant, kindly  wisdom of this great man. "They cannot hope to wage successful war, but  they may bring much suffering to others."    "Much suffering," nodded Kellen, still gently smiling. "And we are  determined that this thing shall not be. Not"--and his face grew gray  with a terrible and bitter resolve--"not if we have to bring to bear  upon that dark and unwilling world the disintegrating rays of every ship  of the Alliance, so that the very shell of the planet shall disappear,  and no life ever again shall move upon its surface.    "But this," and he seemed to shudder at the thought, "is a terrible and  a ruthless thing to even contemplate. We must first try once again to  point out to them the folly of their ways. It is with this mission that  we would burden you, John Hanson."    *       *       *       *       *    "It is no burden, but an honor, sir," I said quietly.    "Youth! Youth!" Kellen chided me gently. "Foolish, yet rather glorious.  Let me tell you the rest, and then we shall ask for your reply again.    "The news came to us by a small scout ship attached to that unhappy  world. It barely made the journey to Jaron, the nearest planet, and  crashed so badly, from lack of power, that all save one man were killed. 
upon a smooth sheet of flat glass. Next he picked a few blossoms from a  bowl that stood, incongruously enough, on the table, and threw them  under the glass hemisphere.    "Flora," he grinned.    Hurrying to the other end of the room, he reached into a large flat  metal cage and brought forth three small rodent like animals, natives of  that world. These he also tossed carelessly under the glass.    "Fauna," he grunted, and picked up the tiny metal vial.    One end of the vial unscrewed. He turned the cap gently, carefully, a  strained, anxious look upon his face. My four guards watched him  breathlessly, fearfully.    *       *       *       *       *    The cap came loose at last, disclosing the end of the tube, sealed with  a grayish substance that looked like wax. Very quickly Ja Ben rolled the  little cylinder under the glass hemisphere, and picked up a beaker that  had been bubbling gently on an electric plate close by. Swiftly he  poured the thick contents of the beaker around the base of the glass  bell. The stuff hardened almost instantly, forming an air-tight seal  between the glass hemisphere and the flat plate of glass upon which it  rested. Then, with an evil, triumphant smile, Ja Ben looked up.    "_Flora_," he repeated. "_Fauna._ And _death_. Watch! The little metal  cylinder is plugged still, but in a moment that plug will  disappear--simply a volatile solid, you understand. It is going rapidly  ... rapidly ... it is almost gone now! Watch ... In an instant now ...  _ah!_"    I saw the gray substance that stopped the entrance of the little metal  vial disappear. The rodents ran around and over it, trying to find a  crevice by which they might escape. The flowers, bright and beautiful,  lay untidily on the bottom of the glass prison.    Then, just as the last vestige of the gray plug vanished; an amazing, a  terrible thing happened. At the mouth of the tiny metal vial a greenish 
years....    "What's this all about?" he asked.    "No--no!" said a voice; "I can't tell you--it is too big--greater than  the induction motor--greater than the electric light--it is the greatest  thing in the world. The taxi should be there now--you must come--"    A knock at the office door where a voice said, "Car for Professor  Eddinger," confirmed the excited words.    "I'll come," said the Professor, "right away."    *       *       *       *       *    He pondered, as the car whirled him across the city, on what this  greatest thing in the world might be. And he hoped with gentle  skepticism that the enthusiasm was warranted. A young man opened the car  door as they stopped. His face was flushed, Eddinger noted, hair pushed  back in disarray, his shirt torn open at the throat.    "Wait here," he told the driver and took the Professor by the arm to  hurry him into a dilapidated building.    "Not much of a laboratory," he said, "but we'll have better, you and I;  we'll have better--"    The room seemed bare with its meager equipment, but it was neat, as  became the best student of Professor Eddinger. Rows of reagent bottles  stood on the shelves, but the tables were a litter of misplaced  instruments and broken glassware where trembling hands had fumbled in  heedless excitement.    "Glad to see you again, Avery." The gentle voice of Professor Eddinger  had lost its tired tone. "It's been two years you've been working, I  judge. Now what is this great discovery, boy? What have you found?"    The younger man, in whose face the color came and went, and whose eyes  were shining from dark hollows that marked long days and sleepless  nights, still clung to the other's arm.    "It's real," he said; "it's great! It means fortune and fame, and you're  in on that, Professor. The old master," he said and clapped a hand  affectionately upon a thin shoulder; "I owe it all to you. And now I 
stronger, and stronger still. If Bell had been aloft, he would have seen  the planes from The Master's hangars being rushed out of their shelters.  One of the long row of buildings had caught. And the plateau of Cuyaba  is very, very far from civilization. Tools, and even dynamos and  engines, could be brought toilsomely to it, but the task would be  terrific. Buildings would be made from materials on the spot, even the  shelters for the planes. It would be much more practical to carry the  parts for a saw mill and saw out the lumber on the spot than to attempt  to freight roofing materials and the like to Cuyaba. So that the  structures Bell had seen in the wing lights' glow were of wood, and  inflammable. The powerhouse that lighted the landing field was already  ablaze. The smaller shacks of the laborers perhaps would not be burnt  down, but the elaborate depot for communication by plane and wireless  was rapidly being destroyed. The reserve of gasoline had gone up in  smoke almost at the beginning, and in spreading out had extended the  disaster to nearly all the compact nerve-center of the whole conspiracy.    Presently the droning noise was tumultuous. Every plane in a condition  to fly was out on the landing field, now brightly lighted by the burning  buildings all about. There was frantic, hectic activity everywhere. The  secretaries of The Master were rescuing what records they could, and  growing cold with terror. In the confusion of spreading flames and the  noise of roaring conflagrations the stopping of the motor up aloft had  passed unnoticed. In the headquarters of The Master there was panic. An  attack had been made upon The Master. A person who could not be one of  his slaves had found his stronghold and attacked it terribly. And if one  man knew that location and dared attack it, then....    *       *       *       *       *    The hold of The Master upon all his slaves was based on one fact and its 
tone. Bell relaxed, his flash of panic for Paula gone.    "I know," said the captain imploringly, "that the great _fazenda_ has  been deserted. On my last trip, down, senor, I brought many of the high  deputies who had been there. They warned me not to speak, senor, but I  saw that you were not what you seemed, and I thought you might be going  about to see who obeyed The Master's orders...."    *       *       *       *       *    Bell nodded.    "That is my mission," he said curtly. "Do not speak of it further--not  even to the deputy in Asunción."    The captain stammered again.    "But I must see the Señor Francia," he said humbly. "I report to him  after every trip, and if he thought that I did not report all that I  learn...."    "It is my order," snapped Bell angrily. "If he reproaches you, say that  one who has orders from The Master himself gave them to you. And do not  speak of the destruction of the _fazenda_. I am searching especially for  the man who caused it. And--wait! I will take your name, and you shall  give me--say--a thousand pesos. I had need of money to bribe a fool I  could not waste time on, up-country. It will be returned to you."    And again the captain stammered, but Bell stared at him haughtily, and  he knelt abjectly before the ship's safe.    *       *       *       *       *    Asunción, as everybody knows, is a city of sixty thousand people, and  the capital of a republic which enjoyed the rule of a family of  hereditary dictators for sixty years; which rule ended in a war wherein  four-fifths of the population was wiped out. And since that beginning it  has averaged eight revolutions to Mexico's three, has had the joy of 
indifferently ignored him whenever he chose and gave orders directly.  There would be very little surprise and no disorder whatever when The  Master proclaimed Paraguay a viceroyalty of his intended empire.    *       *       *       *       *    The carriage went smartly through the cobbled streets with a cavalry  escort all about it. An officer sat opposite Bell with his hand on his  revolver.    "I am receiving at least the honors of royalty," Bell commented coldly  to him, in Spanish.    "Señor," said the officer harshly, "this is the state in which the  deputies of The Master were escorted."    He watched Bell heavily, but with the desperate intentness of a man who  knows no excuses will be received if his prisoner escapes.    Out of the town to a flying field, where a multi-engined plane was  warming up. It was one of the ships that had been at The Master's  _fazenda_ of Cuyaba, one of the ships that had fled from the burning  plantation. Bell was ushered into it with a ceremonious suspicion.  Almost immediately he was handcuffed to his seat. Two men took their  place behind him. The big ship rolled forward, lifted, steadied, and  after a single circling set out to the southeast for Buenos Aires.    *       *       *       *       *    The whole performance had been run off with the smoothly oiled  precision of an iron discipline exercised upon men in the grip of deadly  fear.    "One man, at least," reflected Bell grimly, "has some qualities that fit  him for his job."    And then, for hour after hour, the big ship went steadily southeast. It  flew over Paraguayan territory for two hours, soaring high over the Lago  Ypoa and on over the swampy country that extends to the Argentine  border. It ignored that border and all customs formalities. It went on, 
he told me amusedly, I would not care for marriage. My fiancée would be  at my disposal without such formalities. In fact--while I stood rigid  with horror--he sent a command for her to attend him immediately. He  commanded me to go to an apartment in his dwelling. And soon--within  minutes, it seemed--the girl I loved came there to me...."    Bell did not move. This was no moment to interrupt. Ortiz's fixed and  cynical smile wavered and vanished. His voice was harsh.    "She was at my disposal, as an act of drunken friendship by the deputy  of The Master. She confessed to me, weeping, that she had been at the  disposal of the deputy himself. Of any other person he cared to divert  or amuse.... Oh! _Dios!_"    Ortiz stopped short and said, in forced calmness:    "That also was the night that my father died."    *       *       *       *       *    Silence fell. Bell sat very still. The Teutonic figure spoke quietly  after the clock had ticked for what seemed an interminable period.    "You didt know, then, that your father's death was arranged?"    Ortiz turned stiffly to look at him.    "Here," said the placid voice, quaintly sympathetic. "Look at these."    A hand extended a thick envelope. Ortiz took it, staring with wide,  distended eyes. The round shouldered figure stood up and seemed to  shake itself. The stoop of its shoulders straightened out. One of the  seemingly pudgy hands reached up and removed the thick spectacles. A  bushy gray eyebrow peeled off. A straggly beard was removed. The other  eyebrow.... Jamison nodded briefly to Bell, and turned to watch Ortiz.    And Ortiz was reading the contents of the envelope. His hands began to  shake violently. He rested them on the desk-top so that he could  continue to read. When he looked up his eyes were flaming.    "The real Herr Wiedkind," said Jamison dryly, "came up from Punta Arenas  with special instructions from The Master. You have talents, Señor 
