

_More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand

for Clayton Magazines._



       *       *       *       *       *









VOL. IV, No. 1          CONTENTS          OCTOBER, 1930





COVER DESIGN                  H. W. WESSOLOWSKI



    _Painted in Oils from a Scene in "The Invisible Death."_



STOLEN BRAINS                 CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK            7



    _Dr. Bird, Scientific Sleuth Extraordinary, Goes After a Sinister

     Stealer of Brains._



THE INVISIBLE DEATH           VICTOR ROUSSEAU              24



    _With Night-Rays and Darkness-Antidote America Strikes Back, at the

     Terrific and Destructive Invisible Empire._ (A Complete Novelette.)



PRISONERS ON THE ELECTRON     ROBERT H. LEITFRED           75



    _Fate Throws Two Young Earthians into Desperate Conflict with the

     Primeval Monsters of an Electron's Savage Jungles._



JETTA OF THE LOWLANDS         RAY CUMMINGS                 94



    _Into Remote Lowlands, in an Invisible Flyer, Go Grant and

     Jetta--Prisoners of a Scientific Depth Bandit._

     (Part Two of a Three-Part Novel.)



AN EXTRA MAN                  JACKSON GEE                 118

search. The slope of the hill was almost sheer and Carnes looked

dubiously over the edge.



"I wish we had brought the parachutes," he whispered to the doctor.

"We could have taken the ropes off them and you could have lowered me

over the edge."



Dr. Bird chuckled softly and tugged at his middle. Carnes watched him

with astonishment in the dim light, but he understood when Dr. Bird

thrust the end of a strong but light silk cord into his hands. He

looped it under his arms and the doctor with whispered instructions,

lowered him over the cliff. The doctor lowered him for a few feet and

then stopped in response to a jerk on the free end. A moment later

Carnes signaled to be drawn up and soon stood beside the doctor.



"That's the place all right," he whispered. "The whole cliff is

covered with creepers and there is a tree growing right close to it.

If we can anchor the cord here, I think that we can slide down to a

safe hold on the tree."



A tree stood near and the silk cord was soon fastened. Carnes

disappeared over the cliff and in a few moments Dr. Bird slid down the

cord to join him. He found the detective seated in the crotch of a

tree only a few feet from the face of the cliff. From the cliff came a

pronounced murmur of voices. Dr. Bird drew in his breath in excitement

and moved forward along the branch. He touched the stone and after a

moment of searching he cautiously raised one corner of a painted

canvas flap and peered into the cliff. He watched for a few seconds

and then slid back and silently pulled Carnes toward him.



       *       *       *       *       *



Together the two men made their way toward the cliff and Dr. Bird

raised the corner of the flap and they peered into the hill. Before

them was a cave fitted up as a cross between a laboratory and a

"--as far as Slavatsky is concerned, it's just too bad. I'll have four

shots left--and I'm a dead shot at this range. One! Two!"



His lips framed the word "three" and his fingers were tightening on

the trigger when Carson jumped forward with an oath. He pulled a lever

on the wall and the door swung open. Carnes shouted and through the

opened door came a half dozen marines followed by an officer.



"Tie these men up!" snapped Carnes.



       *       *       *       *       *



In a trice the six men were securely bound and Frink's bleeding

shoulder was being skilfully treated by two of the marines. Carnes

turned his attention to the unconscious doctor.



He rolled him over on his back and began to chafe his hands. An

officer in a naval uniform came through the door and with a swift

glance around, bent over Dr. Bird. He raised one of the doctor's

eyelids and peered closely at his eye and then sniffed at his breath.



"It's some anesthetic I don't know," he said. "I'll try a stimulant."



He reached in his pocket for a hypodermic, but Carnes interrupted him.



"Earlier in the evening Dr. Bird said they were using lethane," he

said.



"Oh, that new gas the Chemical Warfare Service has discovered," said

the surgeon. "In that case I guess it'll just have to wear off. I know

of nothing that will neutralize it."



Without replying, Carnes began to feverishly search the pockets of the

unconscious scientist. With an exclamation of triumph he drew out a

bottle and uncorked it. A strong smell as of garlic penetrated the

room and he held the opened bottle under Dr. Bird's nose. The doctor

lay for a moment without movement, and then he coughed and sat up half

strangled with tears running down his face.



"Take that confounded bottle away, Carnes!" he said. "Do you want to

strangle me?"




       *       *       *       *       *



As soon as Von Kettler had been temporarily established in his new

quarters, a pretty, fair-haired young woman came along the corridor,

conducted by the Superintendent himself. She walked with dignity, her

bearing was proud, she smiled at her brother through the grill, and

there was no trace of weeping about her eyes.



She bowed with pretty formality, and Von Kettler saluted her with an

airy wave of the hand. Then they began to speak, and the German guard

who had been selected for the purpose of interpreting to the

Superintendent afterward, was baffled.



It was not German--neither was it French, Italian, or any of the

Romance languages. As a matter of fact, it was Hungarian.



Not until the half-hour was up did they lapse into English, and all

the while they might have been conversing on art, literature, or

sport. There was no hint of tragedy in this last meeting.



"Good-by, Rudy," smiled his sister, "I'll see you soon."



"To-night or to-morrow," replied Von Kettler indifferently.



The girl blew him a kiss. She seemed to detach it from her mouth and

extend it through the grill with a graceful gesture of the hand, and

Von Kettler caught it with a romantic wave of the fingers and strained

it to his heart. But it was only one of those queer foreign ways.

Nothing was passed. The alert guard, sitting under the electric light,

was sure of that.



They searched Von Kettler again after he was back in the death house.

The other cells were empty. In three of them detectives were placed.

In the yard beyond the hangman was experimenting with the trap. He

himself was under close observation. Nothing was being left to chance.



       *       *       *       *       *

man who had been wearing it had sprung instantly into view beneath the

cluster of electric lights. He was a fair-haired young fellow of about

thirty years, his features white and set in the agony of death.



He was dressed in a trim uniform of black, with silver braid, and on

his shoulders were the insignia of a lieutenant. He opened his eyes,

blue as the skies, and stared about him. He seemed to understand what

had happened to him.



"Dogs!" he muttered.



Shrieks of fury answered him. The mob surged toward him as if to grind

his face to pieces under their feet--and then recoiled, mouthing and

gibbering. But it was at Dick that they were looking, not at the dying

man.



He raised himself upon one elbow with a mighty effort. "His Majesty

the Invisible Emperor! Long be his reign triumphant!" he chanted. It

was his last credo. The words broke from his lips accompanied by a

torrent of red foam. His head dropped back, his body slipped down; he

was gone. And no one seemed to observe his passing. They were all

screaming and gibbering at Dick.



"Rennell! Rennell!" yelled Stopford. "Where are you, Rennell? God,

man, what's happened to your legs?"



Dick looked down at himself. For a moment he had the illusion that he

was a head and a trunk, floating in the air. His lower limbs had

become invisible, except for patches of trousering that seemed to

drift through space. The mob in the room had fallen back gaping at him

in horror.



Then Dick understood. It was the invisible garment that had coiled

itself about him. He tore it from him and became visibly a man once

more.



Shouts from another room! A surging movement of the crowd toward it.

The muffled sounds of an automatic pistol, fitted with a silencer!

Then screams:



"The devils are in there! They're murdering the soldiers!"



There followed a panic-stricken rush, more muffled firing, and then

the sharp roar of rifles, and the fall of plaster. Some one was

bawling the President's name. The rooms became a mass of milling human

wrecked beyond hope of early repair, yet luckily with no injury beyond

a few minor bruises. He rushed toward the hangar, to encounter a bevy

of scared mechanics.



"Another plane! Rev one up quick!" he shouted.



Planes were already being wheeled out, pilots in flying suits and

goggles were striding beside them. Dick ordered one of them away,

stepped into his plane, and in a moment was in the air again.



In the minute or two that had elapsed since the encounter, the enemy

had been active. Crash after crash was resounding from various parts

of Washington. Buildings were rocking and toppling, débris strewed the

streets, fires were springing up everywhere. A thousand feet aloft,

Dick could see the holocaust of destruction that was being wrought by

the infernal missiles.



Bombs of such power had been the unattained ambition of every

government of the world--and it had been left to the men of the

Invisible Emperor to attain to them. Whole streets went into ruin at

each discharge and from everywhere within the city the wailing cry of

the injured went up, in a resonant moan of pain.



In the central part of the city, the district about F Street and the

government buildings, nothing was standing, except those buildings

fashioned of structural steel, and these showed twisted girders like

the skeletons of primeval monsters, supporting sections of sagging

floors. Houses, hotels had melted into shapeless heaps of rubble,

which filled the streets to a depth of a dozen yards, burying

everything beneath them. Yet here and there could be seen the forms of

dead pedestrians, motor-cars emerging out of the débris, lying in

every conceivable position; horses, horribly mangled, were shrieking

as they tried to free themselves. And yet, despite this ruin, the

general impression upon Dick's mind, as he beat to and fro, signaling

to his flight to spread, was that of a vast, empty desolation.



       *       *       *       *       *



Further away: where the ruin had not yet fallen, thousands of human

would not be likely to pursue. All the roads leading out of

Washington--into Virginia, into Maryland, were congested with columns

of fugitives that stretched for miles.



Some, who were fortunate enough to possess automobiles, and--what was

rarer--a few gallons of gas, were trying to force their way through

the masses ahead of them; here and there a family trudged beside a

pack-horse, or a big dog drew an improvised sled on wheels, loaded

with flour, bacon, blankets, pillows. Old men and young children

trudged on uncomplaining.



The telegraph wires were still, for the most part, working. All the

world knew what was happening. From all the big cities of the East a

similar exodus was proceeding. There was little bitterness and little

disorder.



It was not the airship raids from which these crowds were fleeing.

Something grimmer was happening. The murderous attack upon the

populace about the Capitol had been merely an incident. This later

development was the fulfilment of the Invisible Emperor's ultimatum.



Death was afield, death, invisible, instantaneous, and inevitable.

Death blown on the winds, in the form of the deadliest of unknown

gases.



       *       *       *       *       *



In the Blue Room of the White House a score of experts had gathered.

Dick, too, with the chiefs of his staff, Stopford, and the army and

naval heads. Among them was the chief of the Meteorological Bureau,

and it was to him primarily that Tomlinson was reading a telegraphic

dispatch from Wilmington, South Carolina:



"The Invisible Death has reached this point and is working havoc

throughout the city, spreading from street to street. Men are dropping

dead everywhere. A few have fled, but--"



The sudden ending of the dispatch was significant enough. Tomlinson

picked up another dispatch from Columbia, in the same State:



"Invisible Death now circling city," he read. "Business section

already invaded. All other telegraphists have left posts. Can't say

how long--"



Then a strange phenomenon obtruded itself upon Dick's notice. _Nothing

was audible!_ The bombs were falling, but they were falling silently.

No sound came up from beneath. And, except for the throbbing of his

engine, Dick would have thought it had stopped. He could no longer

hear it.



That terrific holocaust of death and destruction was inaudible.

Skimming the upper reach of the air, high above that wall of darkness,

Dick saw old Luke Evans pick up his end of the speaking-tube, and

mechanically followed suit. He could see the old man's lips moving.

But he heard nothing!



And now another phenomenon was borne in on his notice. His flight were

perhaps five hundred feet beneath him, hovering a little above the

barrage of black gas. But they were converging oddly. And there was no

sight of the airplanes that Dick had just seen taking off from the

invisible tarmac.



       *       *       *       *       *



Dick fired two Very lights as a signal to his flight to scatter. What

were they doing, bunching together like a flock of sheep, when at any

moment the enemy planes might come swooping in, riddling them with

bullets? He thrust the stick forward--and then realized that his

controls had gone dead!



He thought for a moment that a wire had snapped. But the stick

responded perfectly to his hand, only it had no longer control over

his plane. He kicked right rudder, and the plane remained motionless.

He pushed home the soaring lever, to neutralize the helicopter and the

plane still soared.



Then he noticed that the needle of his earth-inductor

compass-indicator was oscillating madly, and realized that it was not

his plane that was at fault.



Underneath him, his flight seemed to be milling wildly as the ships

turned in every direction of the compass. But not for long. They were

nosing in, until the whole flight resembled an enormous airplane

engine, with twelve radial points, corresponding to their propellers,

"Come!" barked one of the guards in Dick's ear.



Dick attempted no further resistance. Convinced of its futility, sick

and reeling from the blows he had received, he accompanied his captors

quietly. There was nothing more that he could do, either for President

Hargreaves or for old Luke, but he still imagined the possibility of

somehow warning the approaching fleet or the occupants of the

dirigible.



He was led along the passage, past the guards, and up the stairs

again. The top door opened upon vacancy; it closed, and vanished. Dick

felt the rugs beneath his feet, but he was to all appearances standing

on a square of bare earth in the middle of a prairie.



"Come!" barked the guard again, and Dick accompanied him, trailing his

silver chain. Behind came Von Kettler.



"Here are steps!" said the guard, after they had proceeded a short

distance.



Dick stumbled against the lowest step of an invisible flight. The

breeze was cut off, showing that they had entered a building.

Underneath was a large oval of bare ground. Dick found a handrail and

groped his way up around a spiral staircase, four flights of it.



"Here is a room!"



       *       *       *       *       *



Dick saw that widening edge of door again. The room inside was

perfectly visible, though it seemed to be supported upon air. It was a

spheroid, of huge size, with a number of large windows set into the

walls, and it was filled with machinery. About a dozen workmen in

blue blouses were moving to and fro, attending to what appeared to be

a number of enormous dynamos, but there were other apparatus of whose

significance Dick was ignorant. The dynamos were whirring with intense

velocity, but not the slightest sound was audible.



Von Kettler stepped to a switch attached to a stanchion of white

metal, surmounted by a huge opaque glass dome, and threw it over.

Instantly the hum and whir of machinery became audible, the sound of



"But the fleet--it's approaching Abaco," Dick cried. "I've got to warn

them."



Fredegonde seized him by the arm.



"Come with me," she cried. "If they find you here, they'll kill you."



Dick hesitated only a moment, then followed the girl as she dashed for

another door on the same side of the laboratory as that by which Von

Kettler and his men had fled. They dashed down the staircase, and a

corridor disclosed itself at the bottom. The girl stopped.



"There is a private way--the Emperor's," she panted. "He had it

constructed--in case of necessity. I got the keys. I was

planning--something desperate--to stop these murders; I didn't know

what."



Dick seized her by the arm. "What keys?" he demanded. "The key to the

place where President Hargreaves is?"



"Yes, but--"



"We must get him. Where is he?"



"In a cell beneath the throne room. That's overhead. But they'll

catch us--"



"Which is the key?" asked Dick.



The girl produced three or four keys, fumbled with them, handed one to

Dick. "This way!" she cried.



       *       *       *       *       *



They ran along the corridor. Two guards appeared, moving toward them

under the electric lights. At the sight of the girl running, and Luke

Evans, they stopped in surprise.



Dick had pulled the hood back over his head. He ran toward them,

wielding the iron bar. A mighty swing sent the two toppling over, one

unconscious, the other bruised and yelling loudly.



"Here! Here!" gasped Fredegonde, stopping before a door.



Dick fitted the key to the lock and turned it. Inside, upon a quite

visible bed, sat President Hargreaves, unchained. He looked up

inquiringly as the three entered.



"Mr. President," said Dick, throwing back his hood, "I'm an American

officer, and I want to save you. There's not much chance, but, if

[Advertisement: ]









Prisoners on the Electron



_By Robert H. Leitfred_



[Sidenote: Fate throws two young Earthians into desperate conflict

with the primeval monsters of an electron's savage jungles.]



[Illustration: _The gaping mouth jerked forward._]





The blood-red glow of a slanting sun bathed the towers of New York's

serrated skyline, then dropped into a molten sea beyond the winter

horizon. Friday, the last day of Jupiter, the thirteenth month of the

earth's new calendar, had drawn to a close. In a few hours the year of

1999 would end--at midnight, to be exact.



Far below the towers stretched well lighted canyons teeming with

humanity. At an upper level where once the elevated trains had roared

and rumbled in an antiquated period long past, an orderly mass of

workers and shoppers was borne at an incredible speed from lower

Manhattan to towering apartments that stretched northward to

Peekskill. The northbound traffic was heaviest at this hour and the

moving sidewalk bands were jammed to their capacity.



Street cars, now obsolete, had vanished from the streets under the new

order of things as had also passenger cars, taxis and trucks. Speed

predominated. Noise had practically been eliminated. Except for the

gentle throb of giant motors far underground, the city was cloaked in

silence.



At regular intervals along the four-speed moving bands that formed the

transportation of the great metropolis, huge circular shafts of steel

mounted upward beyond the roofs of the tallest buildings. Within these

shafts, swift elevators carried passengers who lived in the outlying

districts to the level of the station platforms of the interstate

operating transport planes.



       *       *       *       *       *



Close to the entrance of one of the steel shafts stood a young man a

little above medium height. His deep-sunken eyes were those of a

dreamer, a searcher. They were the eyes of a man who had seen strange

       *       *       *       *       *



Presently the girl spoke. "Oh, Aaron, I'm frightened!"



"There's nothing to be alarmed at, dearest." The endearing term came

for the first time from the man's lips. As long as he had known

Nanette Danzig, love had never been mentioned between them. If it had

ever existed, the feeling had not been expressed.



"You shouldn't call me that, Aaron."



His voice sounded curiously far-off when he answered. "I couldn't help

it, Nan. Our nearness, the strange darkness, and the fact that we are

alone together brought strange emotions to my heart. At this moment

you are the dearest--"



Bump, thump! Bump, thump!



"What's that noise?" breathed Nanette.



Carruthers turned his head to listen. To his ears came the pound of

some heavy object striking the ground at well-regulated intervals.



Nanette, who had started to free herself from Carruthers violent

embrace, suddenly ceased to struggle. "Oh, what is it? What is it?"

she whispered fearfully.



Carruthers sniffed the night air. A musky odor assailed his nostrils,

strange and unfamiliar. "It's beyond me, Nanette. Let's move away from

this spot. Perhaps we can find shelter for the rest of the night."



But the Stygian blackness successfully hid any form of shelter. Tired

from their search they sat down.



"We might build a fire," suggested Carruthers, "only there doesn't

seem to be any wood around. Nothing but bare rock."



"Perhaps it's just as well," spoke the girl. "The flames might attract

prowlers."



"Maybe you're right," agreed Carruthers.



       *       *       *       *       *



A silence fell between them. After a long time Nanette spoke.



"I don't suppose, Aaron, that anything I can do or say will help

you have noticed the chief of all the Zakus. He is crouching now

beside the entrance to our inner walls. He is Marbo, and his followers

live in the jungles."



"And does he talk as you do?"



The white chieftain shook his head. "No. Only we of the Esau tribe

have mastered speech. Not counting the women of our tribe that

comprise our numbers we are only seven in all."



"I owe Marbo my life as does also my companion," said Carruthers.



"Marbo looks upon you earth people as gods," spoke the old chieftain.

"He and his followers will protect you with their lives."



"And who rules over and beyond?" questioned Carruthers, waving his arm

to cover the remaining portion of the electron.



"There is no rule beyond except that of force. The Great One called

them by name, Morosaurus, Diplodocus, the Horned Ceratosaurus, and

many others whose names I have long forgotten. They are our enemies

whom we cannot destroy. And their numbers increase from year to year

and are slowly backing us upon our last stronghold."



"Isn't there anything we can do?" asked Carruthers, feeling a quiver

of apprehension along his spine.



       *       *       *       *       *



Slowly, the old chieftain shook his head. "Nothing whatever. Marbo and

his followers can control one or two, but when the herds begin to push

on into our territory, we are doomed. Even now their rumblings and

bellowings come through the jungles. Their thirst and hunger for flesh

is enormous."



Carruthers turned upon the girl. "The old chief's words explain

everything, Nan. Professor Dahlgren has been here and gone. He lived a

lifetime in the span of a few hours earth-time. Now it looks as if we

were destined to follow in his footsteps."



"I'm not afraid," said the girl. "Nothing can be worse than what we

have already passed through." And her eyes softened as she placed her

This next day Jetta dutifully had kept herself secluded. She cooked

her own breakfast while I was at the Government House, and was again

out of sight by noon.



Jetta was nearly always alone. I can picture her sitting there within

the narrow walls of her little room. Boy's ragged garb. All possible

femininity stripped from her. Yet, within her, the woman's instincts

were struggling. She sewed a great deal, she since has told me, there

in the cloistered dimness. Making little dresses of silk and bits of

finery given her surreptitiously by the neighbor women. Gazing at

herself in them with the aid of a tiny mirror. Hiding them away, never

daring to wear them openly; until at intervals her father would raid

the room, find them and burn them in the kitchen incinerator.



"Instincts of Satan! By damn but I will get these woman's instincts

out of you, Jetta!"



       *       *       *       *       *



And there were hours when she would try to read hidden books, and look

at pictures of the strange fairy world of the Highlands. She could

read and write a little: she had gone for a few years to the small

Nareda government school, and then been snatched from it by her

father.



When Spawn and I had finished that noonday meal, I recall that he left

me for a moment. He had gone to Jetta.



"I am taking that young American to the mine. I will return presently.

Stay close, Jetta."



"Yes, Father."



He left with me. Jetta remained in her room, her thoughts upon the

coming night. She trembled at them. She would meet me again, this

evening in the moonlit garden....



The sound of a man walking the garden path aroused her from her

reverie. Then came a soft ingratiating voice:



"Jetta, _chica Mia_!"



It was Perona, standing by the pergola preening his effeminate

mustache.


"Philip, run away! They want to catch you! De Boer, the bandit, is

coming!"



"I know it!"



Fool that I was, to pause with talk! There was no time: I must get

Jetta out of here. Break down this door.



But it would not yield. A gas torch would melt this outer seal. Was

there a torch here at Spawn's? But I had no time to search for a

torch! Or a bar with which to ram this door--



A panic seized me, with the fresh realization that any instant De Boer

and his men would arrive. I beat with futile fists on the door, and

Jetta from within, calling to me to get away before I was caught.



This accursed door between us!



       *       *       *       *       *



And then--after no more than half a minute, doubtless--I thought of

the window. My momentary panic left me. I dashed to the window oval.

Sealed. But the shutter curtain, and the glassite pane behind it, were

fragile.



"Jetta, are you near the window?"



"No. On the bed. They have tied me."



"Look out; I'm breaking through!"



There were loose rocks, as large as my head, set to mark the garden

path. I seized one and hurled it. With a crash it went through the

window and fell to the floor of the room. A jagged hole showed.



"All right, Jetta?"



"Yes! Yes, Philip."



I squirmed through the oval and dropped to the floor. My arms were cut

from the jagged glassite, though I did not know it then. It was dim

inside the room, but I could see the outline of the bed with her lying

on it.



Her ankles and wrists were tied. I cut the cords with my knife.



She was gasping. "They're planning to capture you. Philip! You should

not be here! Get away!"

relaying he has done. And for sure there is hell now in Spawn's

garden. The Nareda police are there, of course. They might track us up

here."



He paused before me. "I think I would not cause trouble, Grant."



"I'm not a fool."



"Perhaps not." He turned to Jetta. "No harm will come to you. Fear

nothing."



He wound his dark cloak about his giant figure and left the control

room. In a moment, through the rounded observing pane beside me, I saw

him outside on the moonlit rocks. His men gathered about him. There

were forty of them, possibly, with ten or so left here aboard to guard

the flyer.



And in another moment the group of dark-cloaked figures outside crept

off in single file like a slithering serpent, moving down the rock

defile toward where in the cauldron pit the lights of the mine shone

on its dark silent buildings.





CHAPTER XII



_The Attack on the Mine_



There was a moment when I had an opportunity to speak with Jetta.

Gutierrez sat watchfully by the archway corridor entrance with a

needle projector across his knees. The fellow Hans, a big, heavy-set

half-breed Dutchman with a wide-collared leather jerkin and wide,

knee-length pantaloons, laid his weapon carefully aside and busied

himself with his image mirror. There would soon be images upon it, I

knew: De Boer had the lens-finder on his forehead, and the scenes at

the mine, as De Boer saw them would be flashed back to us here.



This Gutierrez was very watchful. A move on my part and I knew he

would fling a needle through me.



My thoughts flew. Hanley had notified Porto Rico. The patrol-ship had

almost enough time to get here by now.



I felt Jetta plucking at me. She whispered:



"They have gone to attack the mine."



"Yes."



"I heard it planned. Señor Perona--"



Her hurried whispers told me further details of Perona's scheme. So

this was a pseudo attack! Perona would take advantage of it and hide

       *       *       *       *       *



I pressed her hand. "Jetta, you're not too frightened, are you?"



"No, Philip."



Her mind, I think, was constantly on her father, lying dead back there

on his garden path. I had not spoken of him, save once. She threatened

instant tears, and I stopped.



"Do not be too frightened. We'll get out of this."



"Yes."



"He can't escape. Jetta; he can't hide. Why, in a day or so all the

patrols of the United States Lowland Service will be after us!"



But if the patrol-ships assailed De Boer, if he found things going

badly--he could so easily kill Jetta and me. He might be caught, but

we would never come through it alive.



My thoughts drifted along, arriving nowhere, just circling in the same

futile rounds. I was aware of Jetta falling asleep beside me, her face

against my shoulder, her fingers clutching mine. She looked like a

half grown, slender, ragged boy. But her woman's hair lay thick on my

arm, and one of the dark tresses fell to my hand. I turned my fingers

in it. This strange little woman. Was my love for her foredoomed to

end in tragedy? I swore then that I would not let it be so.





CHAPTER XIV



_Jetta Takes a Hand_



I came from my reverie to find De Boer before me. He was standing with

legs planted wide, arms folded across his deep chest, and on his face

an ironic smile.



"So tired! My little captives, _di mi_! You look like babes lost in a

wood."



I disengaged myself from Jetta, resting her against a cushion, and she

did not awaken. I stood up, fronting De Boer.



"What are you going to do with me?" I demanded.



He held his ironic smile. "Take you to my camp. You'll be well hidden,


about some new theory I was always puzzled.



"It was at such a time, when we had been discussing the new and first

successful attempt to send moving pictures by radio, that I mentioned

the prophecy of Jackson Gee. Gee was the writer of fantastic,

pseudo-scientific tales who had said: 'We shall soon be able to

resolve human beings into their constituent elements, transmit them by

radio to any desired point and reassemble them at the other end. We

shall do this by means of vibrations. We are just beginning to learn

that vibrations are the key to the fundamental process of all life.'



       *       *       *       *       *



"I laughed as I quoted this to Drayle, for it seemed to me the ravings

of a lunatic. But Drayle did not smile. 'Jackson Gee,' he said, 'is

nearer to the truth than he imagines. We already know the elements

that make the human body, and we can put them together in their proper

proportions and arrangements: but we have not been able to introduce

the vitalizing spark, the key vibrations to start it going. We can

reproduce the human machine, but we can not make it move. We can

destroy life in the laboratory, and we can prolong it, but so far we

have not been able to create it. Yet I tell you in all seriousness

that that time will come; that time will come.'



"I was surprised at his earnestness and would have questioned him

further. But a boy appeared just then with a message that Drayle was

wanted at the telephone.



"Something important, sir," he said. Drayle went off to answer the

summons and later he sent word that he had been called away and would

not be able to return.



"It was the last I heard from Drayle for months. He shut himself in

his laboratory and saw no one but his assistants, Ward of Boston, and

Buchannon of Washington. He even slept in the workshop and had his

is another solution. We can, as you realize, duplicate Mrs. Farrel,

and I will double your present possessions.'



"This time it was Mrs. Farrel who was dissatisfied. 'You ain't

talking to me,' she informed Drayle. 'Me stand naked in front of all

them lamps and get turned into smoke? Not me!' A smile spread over her

face and her eyes twinkled with deviltry. 'I didn't never think I'd be

in one of them triangles like in the movies, and with my own husbands,

but seein' I am, I'm all for keeping them both. Then I might know

where one of them was some of the time.'



"But neither of the men took to this idea and the problem appeared

increasingly complex. I proposed that the survivor be determined by

lot, but this suggestion won no support from anyone. Again the two men

spoke at the same instant and in the same words. It was like a

carefully rehearsed chorus. 'I know my rights, and I ain't going to be

gypped out of them!'



"It was at this point that Drayle attempted bribery. He offered fifty

thousand dollars to the man who would abandon Mrs. Farrel. But this

scheme fell through because both men sought the opportunity and Mrs.

Farrel objected volubly.



"So in the end Drayle promised each of them the same amount as a price

for silence and left the matter of their relationships to their own

settlement.



       *       *       *       *       *



"I was skeptical of the success of the plan but could offer nothing

better. So I drew up a release as legally binding as I knew how to

make it in a case without precedent. I remember thinking that if the

matter ever came into court the judge would be as much at a loss as I

was.



"Our troubles, though, didn't spring from that source. Each of the

three parties accepted the arrangement eagerly and Drayle dismissed

them with a hand-shake, a wish for luck and a check for fifty thousand



     Your magazine is undoubtedly the best Science Fiction "mag"

     on the stands. Why? Because of your authors. There is not

     another Science Fiction book on the stands that has stories

     by Victor Rousseau, Murray Leinster Ray Cummings, A. T.

     Locke, A. J. Burks, C. W. Diffin, S. W. Ellis and many

     others.



     Some of your readers want stories by Dr. David H. Keller, Ed

     Earl Repp and Walter Kately. Well, I just wanted to tell you

     that I have stopped reading all other Science Fiction "mags"

     on account of the frequency of these authors in them. So

     please, please, don't destroy my last stronghold.



     Also, I would not be against reprints. There is only one so

     far who has objected to reprints, while there have been

     several asking you to reprint A. Merritt's "People of the

     Pit." It would not only satisfy your present readers, but,

     because of the great popularity of A. Merritt among the

     reading circles of to-day, it would gain for you many more

     readers.



     Harl Vincent is an indispensable acquisition to "our"

     magazine. His stories are not only all excellent but his

     stories all contain good science. He will bring you many new

     readers.



     May I add my voice to every other reader's in the cry for

     the reprinting of "People of the Pit," by A. Merritt? Why

     not give us some stories by him? He's pretty near the best

     writer living to-day.

