

_More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand

for Clayton Magazines._



       *       *       *       *       *









VOL. IV, No. 2 CONTENTS NOVEMBER, 1930



COVER DESIGN              H. W. WESSOLOWSKI



    _Painted in Water-Colors from a Scene in "The Pirate Planet."_



THE WALL OF DEATH         VICTOR ROUSSEAU              151



    _Out of the Antarctic It Came--a Wall of Viscid, Grey, Half-Human

     Jelly, Absorbing and Destroying All Life That It Encountered._



THE PIRATE PLANET         CHARLES W. DIFFIN            168



    _A Strange Light Blinks on Venus, and Over Old Earth Hovers a

     Mysterious Visitant--Dread Harbinger of Interplanetary War._

     (Beginning a Four-Part Novel.)



THE DESTROYER             WILLIAM MERRIAM ROUSE        198



    _Slowly, Insidiously, There Stole Over Allen Parker Something

     Uncanny. He Could No Longer Control His Hands--Even His Brain!_



THE GRAY PLAGUE           L. A. ESHBACH                210



    _Maimed and Captive, in the Depths of an Interplanetary Meteor-Craft,

     Lay the Only Possible Savior of Plague-Ridden Earth._



JETTA OF THE LOWLANDS     RAY CUMMINGS                 230


the north coast, near Georgetown. They had overleaped the Amazon; they

were overrunning British Guiana, eating up everything on their way.

Georgetown was abandoned; the monsters were in complete control.



"They will be cut off from the main herd," the optimistic reports

announced. "We shall deal with the main herd first. This year the

sacrifice will have to be made, but it will be the last. Scientists

have at last hit upon an infallible toxin which will utterly destroy

this menace within a few months."



Nobody believed that story, for everything had been tried and failed.

In their laboratory Cliff and Kay were working frantically. And now

the coldness that had developed between them was affecting their

collaboration too. Cliff was keeping something back from Kay.



       *       *       *       *       *



Kay knew it. Cliff had made some discovery that he was not sharing

with his partner. Often Kay, entering the laboratory, would find Cliff

furtively attempting to conceal some operation that he was in the

midst of. Kay said nothing, but a brooding anger began to fill his

heart. So Cliff was trying to get all the credit for the result of

their years of work together!



And always, in the back of his mind, there was a vision of the little

Government ticket in Ruth's hand, with the numbers in staring black

type. They had burned into his brain. He could never forget them.

Often at night, after a hard day's work, he would suddenly awaken out

of a hideous nightmare, in which he saw Ruth taken away by the agents

of the Government, to be thrown as a sacrifice to the monsters.



And Cliff was hiding something! That made the situation unbearable.



The coolness between the two men was rapidly changing into open

animosity. And then one day, quite by chance, in Cliff's absence, Kay

came upon evidence of Cliff's activities.



Cliff was no longer experimenting with the W-ray! He was using a new

She had been hurried out of the upper entrance to the monorail, which

conveyed her in a special car to the landing station. A few minutes

later she had been on her way to join the camp of other victims, a

hundred miles away. Within two hours she was on her way southward.



Stunned by the tragedy, none of the victims had made much of an

outcry. They had been given water by the airship police. No food for

boys and girls already dead. Days and nights had passed, and now she

was here, faint from exhaustion, and wondering at the despair shown by

those others. What difference would it make in half an hour? Besides,

that Government pamphlet had insisted that this death was painless!



But an immense longing to see Kay once more came over her. There had

been a time when she thought she loved Cliff; then Kay had come into

her life, and she had known that other affair was folly. She had

never told Kay of the bitter scene between Cliff and herself, how he

had raved against Kay and sworn to win her in the end.



Cliff had calmed down and apologized, and Ruth had never seen him

again. She wished he had not taken it like that. But above all she

wanted to see Kay, just to say good-by.



And she tried to send out her whole heart to him in an unspoken

message of love that would surely somehow convey itself to him.



       *       *       *       *       *



The wall of devils was creeping up on every side, slowly,

lethargically. The monsters took their time, because they knew they

were invincible. The sobs and shrieks had died away. Collected into a

mass almost as rigid as that of the Earth Giants, the victims waited,

palsied as a rabbit that awaits the approach of the serpent.



A humming overhead. An airplane shooting down from the sky. Rescue?

No. Only a solitary pilot, armed with a woodsman's ax.

dots and dashes. I have not; but ... well, the fact is, sir, that I

have been getting some mighty queer sounds for the past few nights.

They've got me guessing.



"If you wouldn't mind waiting. Captain; they're about due now--" He

listened again to some signal inaudible to the others, then hooked up

two extra head-sets for the officers.



"It's on now," he said. "If you don't mind--"



McGuire grinned at the captain as they took up the ear-phones. "Power

of suggestion," he whispered, but the smile was erased from his lips

as he listened. For in his ear was sounding a weird and wailing note.



No dots or dashes, as the operator had said, but the signal was

strong. It rose and fell and wavered into shrill tremolos, a ghostly,

unearthly sound, and it kept on and on in a shrill despairing wail.

Abruptly it stopped.



The captain would have removed the receiver from his ear, but the

operator stopped him. "Listen," he said, "to the answer."



       *       *       *       *       *



There was silence, broken only by an occasional hiss and crackle of

some far distant mountain storm. Then, faint as a whisper, came an

answering, whistling breath.



It, too, trembled and quavered. It went up--up--to the limit of

hearing; then slid down the scale to catch and tremble and again

ascend in endless unvarying ups and downs of sound. It was another

unbroken, unceasing, but always changing vibration.



"What in thunder is that?" Captain Blake demanded.



"Communication of some sort, I should say," McGuire said slowly, and

he caught the operator's eyes upon him in silent agreement.



"No letters," Blake objected; "no breaks; just that screech." He

listened again. "Darned if it doesn't almost seem to say something,"

he admitted.



"When did you first hear this?" he demanded of the radio man.



"Night before last, sir. I did not report it. It seemed too--too--"

"Lieutenant," he suggested quietly--and again the smile had returned

to his lips as he spoke--"sit down. I'm not as busy as I pretend to

be. Now tell me: what in the devil have you got in your mind?"



And McGuire told him. "Like some of your dope," he said, "this is not

for publication. But I have not been instructed to hush it up, and I

know you will keep it to yourself."



He told the clear-eyed, listening man of the previous night's events.

Of the radio's weird call and the mystery ship.



"Hallucination," suggested the scientist. "You saw the stars very

clearly, and they suggested a ship."



"Tell that to Jim Burgess," said McGuire: "he was the pilot of that

plane." And the scientist nodded as if the answer were what he

expected.



He asked again about the ship's flight. And he, too, bore down heavily

upon the matter of acceleration in the thin upper air. He rose to lay

a friendly hand on McGuire's shoulder.



"We can't know what it means," he said, "but we can form our own

theories, you and I--and anything is possible.



"It is getting late," he added, "and you have had a long drive. Come

over and eat; spend the night here. Perhaps you would like to have a

look at our equipment--see Venus for yourself. I will be observing her

through the sixty-inch refractor to-night. Would you care to?"



"Would I?" McGuire demanded with enthusiasm. "Say, that will be

great!"



       *       *       *       *       *



The sun was dropping toward the horizon when the two men again came

out into the cool mountain air.



"Just time for a quick look around," suggested Professor Sykes, "if

you are interested."



He took the lieutenant first to an enormous dome that bulged high

above the ground, and admitted him to the dark interior. They climbed

a stairway and came out into a room that held a skeleton frame of



His question was answered as, out of the night, a whistling shriek

proclaimed the passage of the meteor ship that drove unmistakably at

the lone plane. And again the pilot with superb skill waited until the

last moment and threw himself out of the path of the oncoming mass,

though his own plane was tossed and whirled like an autumn leaf in the

vortex that the enemy created. Not a second was lost as Blake opened

his throttle and forced his plane into a steep climb.



"Atta-boy!" said McGuire, as if words could span across to the man in

the plane. "Altitude, Blake--get altitude!"



The meteor had turned in a tremendous circle; so swift its motion that

it made an actual line of light as the moon marked its course. And the

curved line straightened abruptly to a flashing mark that shot

straight toward the struggling plane.



       *       *       *       *       *



This time another sound came down to the listening ears of the two

men. The plane tore head on to meet the onslaught, to swing at the

last instant in a frantic leap that ended as before in the maelstrom

of air back of the ship. But the muffled roar was changed, punctured

with a machine-gun's familiar rattle, and the stabbing flashes from

Blake's ship before he threw it out of the other's path were a song of

joy to the tense nerves of the men down below.



This deadly rush could only be construed as an attack, and Blake was

fighting back. The very speed of the great projectile must hold it to

its course; the faster it went the more difficult to swerve it from a

line. This and much more was flashing sharply in McGuire's mind.

But--Blake!--alone against this huge antagonist!... It was coming

back. Another rush like a star through space....



And McGuire shouted aloud in a frenzy of emotion as a cluster of

lights came falling from on high. No lone machine gun now that tore

gravity with which they regarded the investigation was shown by their

invitation to the representatives of foreign powers to attend.



"I have told you all that happened," Blake concluded, "up to the

coming of Colonel Boynton. May I reiterate one fact? I do not wonder

at your questioning my state of mind and my ability to observe

correctly. But I must insist, gentlemen, that while I got a shot of

their gas and my muscles and my nervous system were paralyzed, my

brain was entirely clear. I saw what I saw; those creatures were

there; they entered the buildings; they carried off Lieutenant McGuire

and another man.



"What they were or who they were I cannot say. I do not know that they

were men, but their insane shrieking in that queer unintelligible talk

is significant. And that means of communication corresponds with the

radio reception of which you know.



"If you gentlemen know of any part of this earth that can produce such

a people, if you know of any people or country in this world that can

produce such a ship--then we can forget all our wild fancies. And we

can prepare to submit to that country and that people as the masters

of this earth. For I must tell you, gentlemen, with all the

earnestness at my command, that until you have seen that ship in

action, seen its incredible speed, its maneuverability, its

lightning-like attack and its curtain of gas, you can have no

conception of our helplessness. And the insignia that she carries is

the flag of our conquerors."



       *       *       *       *       *



Blake got an approving nod from the Secretary of War as he took his

seat. That quiet man rose slowly from his chair to add his words. He

spoke earnestly, impressively.



"Captain Blake has hit the nail squarely on the head," he stated. "We

have here in this room a representative gathering from the whole

world. If there is any one of you who can say that this mystery ship

livid lines of healing cuts and bruises.



McGuire tried gingerly to move his arms and legs; they were still

functioning though stiff and weak from disuse. He raised himself

slowly and stood swaying on his feet, then made his uncertain way to

his companion and shook him weakly by the shoulder.



Professor Sykes breathed deeply and raised leaden lids from tired eyes

to stare uncomprehendingly at McGuire. Soon his dark pupils ceased to

dilate, and he, too, could see their prison and the light of day.



"Sunlight!" he said in a thin voice, and he seemed to know now that

they were in the air; "I wonder--I wonder--if we shall land--what

country? ... Some wilderness and a strange race--a strange, strange

race!"



He was muttering half to himself; the mystery of these people whom he

could not identify was still troubling him.



       *       *       *       *       *



McGuire helped the other man to his feet, and they clung to each to

the other for support as they crossed to kneel beside the floor-window

and learn finally where their captors meant to take them.



A wilderness, indeed, the sight that met their eyes, but a wilderness

of clouds--no unfamiliar sight to Lieutenant McGuire of the United

States Army air service. But to settle softly into them instead of

driving through with glistening wings--this was new and vastly

different from anything he had known.



Sounds came to them in the silence, penetrating faintly through thick

walls--the same familiar wailing call that trembled and quavered and

seemed to the listening men to be guiding them down through the mist.



Gone was the sunlight, and the clouds beyond the deep-set window were

gloriously ablaze with a brilliance softly diffused. The cloud bank

was deep, and they felt the craft under them sink slowly, steadily

into the misty embrace. It thinned below them to drifting vapor, and

the first hazy shadows of the ground showed through from far beneath.

bad dream ... it's nothing. Sorry I bothered you, Allen!"



She was gone before his could stop her. Bewildered, he did not know

whether to follow. Better not, he thought. She would sleep now, and

perhaps he would. But he was worried. Betty was becoming less and less

like herself.



       *       *       *       *       *



At last Parker did sleep, to awake shortly after daylight. He got a

hasty breakfast and took an early train to New York. When John

Cartwright, a shrewd and kindly man well advanced in years, arrived at

his office Allen Parker was right there waiting for him.



Cartwright had shown a real affection for the younger man, a paternal

interest. He beamed, as usual, until he sat down with the new

drawings. Slowly the smile faded from his face. He went over them

twice, three times, and then he looked up.



"My boy," he said, "did you do these?"



"Yes."



"Do you know that you are turning a delicate and beautiful romance

into a lascivious libel on the human race?"



"It is being done," replied Parker, in a low voice. "And I--I can't

help myself!"



"What do you mean by that?"



"I mean that when I start to draw Madelon my hand produces that woman

of Babylon! The writing is just as bad. It's full of sneering hints,

double meanings ... I shall destroy the stuff. I've been to see a

psycho-analyst."



"Ah!" thoughtfully. "Perhaps you're tired, Allen. Why not take Betty

for a sea trip? There'll still be time for fall publication."



"I'm going to try everything possible. I'd rather be dead than do work

like this!"



       *       *       *       *       *



When Parker left his friend he was somewhat encouraged. After the

until more could diffuse in from the sides.



Dr. Shapley's suggestion, in any event, is not to search for heat but

for facts. Even in existing, relatively shallow mines, he believes,

scientific laboratories at different depths under the surface might

yield valuable data not now obtainable. Most scientific men will

agree. Revolutionary as the idea may seem to those familiar only with

the standardized laboratories of physics or chemistry, there are sound

reasons why a half-dozen or so of the sciences should do precisely

what Dr. Shapley suggests.



At least one underground laboratory has already been installed, for

Prof. E. B. Babcock of the University of California has such a

workroom in the Twin Peaks Tunnel, underneath the mountain that rises

above the city of San Francisco. Natural radioactivity in the rocks

thereabouts is greater than normal and Prof. Babcock finds that this

apparently increases new species among fruit flies.



To dig out laboratory rooms a mile or so down in existing deep mines

probably would cost far less than many enterprises already financed by

philanthropists. Even to deepen these shafts for several miles would

be much less difficult than most people imagine.



Increasing heat, if it is found that heat does increase, would not be

difficult to overcome had the engineers sufficient money. Ventilation

and transportation to and from the surface, while too costly for the

business enterprise of winning metals from very deep mines, probably

would present no serious difficulty were facts the chief object

instead of profit. The only question to be decided before intending

benefactors of science are urged to consider some such project is

whether or not the facts likely to be won promise enough value to

mankind.



An excellent case can be made out for answering yes. Dr. Shapley

mentioned four chief lines of investigation suitable for such

deep-mine laboratories: studies of gravity and of the variable length

of the day, researches on the various kinds of earthquake waves,

experiments on ether drift and tests of the biological effects of

cosmic rays and of the rays from radium.



Astronomical theories indicate that the day ought to be growing

grave; it would require another to rescue him from a worse fate.



Even now he was beginning to feel thirsty. He had no way of

determining how long he had been unconscious, but that it was at least

ten hours, he was certain, for the sun had been at its zenith when he

had awakened. No less than fifteen hours had gone by since

water--other than that of the sea--had passed his lips. And the fact

that it was impossible for him to quench his thirst only served to

render it more acute.



In order to take his mind from thoughts of his thirst and of the

immediate future, he rapidly circled the island. As he had expected,

it was utterly barren. With shoulders drooping in despair he settled

wearily to a seat on the jagged mass of metal high up on top of the

meteor.



An expression of sudden interest lit up his face. For a second time he

felt that particular throbbing, that strange pulsing beneath the

surface of the meteor. But now it was far more noticeable than before.

It seemed to be directly below him, and very close to the surface.



Parkinson could not tell how long he sat there, but from the

appearance of the sun, he thought that at the very shortest, an hour

passed by while he remained on that spot. And during that time, the

throbbing gradually increased until the metal began vibrating under

his feet.



Suddenly the bacteriologist leaped aside. The vibrating had reached

its height, and the meteor seemed to lurch, to tilt at a sharp angle.

His leap carried him to firm footing again. And then, his thirst and

hopeless position completely forgotten, Parkinson stared in

fascination at the amazing spectacle before him.



       *       *       *       *       *



An eighteen-foot disc of metal, a perfect circle, seemed to have been

cut out of the top of the meteor. While he watched, it began turning


With the passing of the weariness, Parkinson became aware of a sharp

throbbing in his arm. Rapidly this increased in violence, until

suddenly an unbearable, excruciating agony seized him. Far greater was

this than any pain he had suffered before. For a moment he struggled

to scream, to move, to do anything to relieve his agony. There seemed

to be a sudden snap--a cry of anguish burst from his lips--and his

senses left him. Just as the bonds of paralysis had broken, he had

lost consciousness.



Life returned to Parkinson very slowly. In a daze he stared around,

uncomprehending. Then suddenly he realized that he was no longer

paralyzed: nor was he in the operating room. The bed on which he lay

was soft, comfortable; the room, unfamiliar. But not for long did his

mind dwell upon this; in a few moments his eyelids closed, and he

slept the sleep of complete mental and physical exhaustion.



Daring the weeks that followed, Parkinson did little other than sleep.

Occasionally he arose, either to stretch himself, or to secure food,

but for the greater part of the time he remained in bed. His body was

a mere shadow of its former self as the result of his terrible

experience on the white slab: his incessant sleeping, necessary

because of his weakened condition, served to bring him back to his

former health. The Venerians seemed glad to have it thus: asleep, he

did not disturb their activities.



       *       *       *       *       *



When he had awakened from his first period of natural slumber, he had

received a terrible shock. His left arm was gone, amputated at the

shoulder. Strangely, the wound had healed while he slept, probably the

result of the Venerian doctoring, so there was no pain: but the shock

had been terrible.



After he had recovered from the effects of that shock, he had resolved

to make the Venerians pay for what they had done. And then he had

realized that the inhuman brutes must be destroyed for a greater

England, to Newcastle, 270 miles farther north. The human pilot did

not touch the controls until it was necessary to land the plane at the

destination.









Jetta of the Lowlands



Conclusion



_By Ray Cummings_



[Sidenote: Black-garbed figures move in ghastly greenness as the

invisible flyer speeds on its business of ransom.]



[Illustration: _Hans and I hauled out the heavy casket._]





CHAPTER XV



_In the Bandit Camp_



The dark cave, with its small spots of tube-light mounted upon movable

tripods, was eery with grotesque swaying shadows. The bandit camp.

Hidden down here in the depths of the Mid-Atlantic Lowlands. An

inaccessible retreat, this cave in what once was the ocean floor. Only

a few years ago water had been here, water black and cold and

soundless. Tremendous pressure, with three thousand or more fathoms of

the ocean above it. Fishes had roamed these passages, no doubt.

Strange monsters of the deeps: sightless, or with eyes like

phosphorescent torches.



But the water was gone now. Blue ooze was caked upon the cave floor.

Eroded walls; niches and tiny gullies; crevices and an arching dome

high overhead. A fantastic cave--no one, seeing it as I saw it that

morning at dawn, could have believed it was upon this earth. From

where De Boer had put me--on the flat top of a small, butte-like dome

near the upper end of the sloping cave floor--all the area of this

strange bandit camp was visible to me.



A little tent of parchment was set upon the dome-top.



"Yours," said De Boer, with a grin. "Make yourself comfortable.

Gutierrez will be your willing servant, until we see about this

ransom. It will have to be one very large, for you are a damn trouble

to me, Grant. And a risk. Food will come shortly. Then you can sleep:

I think you will want it."



He leaped from the little butte, leaving the taciturn ever-watchful

Gutierrez sitting cross-legged on the ledge near me, with his

projector across his knees.





       *       *       *       *       *



The details of the exchange were simple. Hanley, with only one

mechanic, would hover at the zero-height, his Wasp lighted so that we

could see it plainly. The wind drift, according to forecast, would be

southerly. At 11 P.M. Hanley would release from his Wasp a small

helium-gas baloon-car--a ten-foot basket with the supporting gas bag

above it, weighted so that it would slowly descend into the depths,

with a southern drift.



Our flyer, invisible and soundless, would pick up the baloon-car at

some point in its descent. The gold would be there, in a black casket.

De Boer would take the gold, deposit Jetta and me in the car, and

release it again. And when the balloon finally settled to the rocks

beneath, Hanley could pick it up. No men would be hidden by Hanley in

that basket. De Boer had stipulated that when casting loose the

balloon, its car must be swept by Hanley with a visible electronic

ray. No hidden men could withstand that blast!



Such was the arrangement with Hanley. I was convinced that he intended

to carry it out to the letter. He would have his own invisible X-flyer

in the neighborhood, no doubt. But it would not interfere with the

safe transfer of Jetta and me.



That De Boer would carry out his part, Hanley could only trust. He had

said so this afternoon bluntly. And De Boer had laughed and interposed

his voice in our circuit.



"Government money against these two lives, Hanley! Of course you have

to trust me!"



       *       *       *       *       *



It was a flight, for us, of something less than four hours to the

meeting place. Hans was piloting, seated alone in the little cubby

upon the forward wing-base, directly over the control room. De Boer,



We fastened the little balloon and dragged the car onto the take-off

platform. The shape of Hans leaped into the car.



"It is here! The ransom money!"



"Lift it to me. Heavy?"



"Yes."



"Gutierrez, help me. Hurry! If Hanley tries any trickery--"



Our aero was drifting downward and southward in the slight wind.

Hanley's Wasp still hovered at the zero-height.



"In, Gutierrez."



       *       *       *       *       *



Hans and I hauled out the heavy casket and placed it on the wing

runway. De Boer pried up its lid. The gold was there. I could not tell

where Jetta was; I prayed she would keep away from this.



Then the shape of De Boer was missing! But in a moment he appeared,

dragging the sack.



"Lift him, Gutierrez. Hans, unclip the balloon and shove off the car!"



We were all standing at the two-foot rail of the runway. The

car-basket, floating now, was off side and level with us. My chance!



"In with him, Gutierrez."



I shoved the body, encased in its black sack, with Hans helping me.

And suddenly De Boer's knife came down at the sack! A stab. But an

instinct to save the poor wretch within swept me. I struck at De

Boer's arm and deflected the blow. The sack tumbled into the car.



I had neglected whatever chance had existed. Too late now!



"What in the hell!"



De Boer's shape seized me.



"What--"



It sent me into a sudden confusion. I flung him off. I stumbled

against the shape of Hans.



The car was almost loose; drifting away.



Without thought--a frantic impulse--I pushed Hans over the brink. He

fell into the car. It swayed into an oscillation with the impact. The

balloon sank below our wing level and was gone, with only Hans,

happenstance would disturb the delicate balance of the energy

compensators and the course of the _Nomad_ would instantly alter to

dodge the foreign object. Once passed by, the course would again be

resumed."



"Some ship, the _Nomad_!" Carr was delighted with the explanations.

"I'm sold on her and on the trip. Where are we now and where bound?"



       *       *       *       *       *



Mado glanced at the instrument board. "Nearly a million miles out and

headed for that Sargasso Sea I told you about," he said. "It isn't

visible in the telescope, but I've got it marked by the stars. Out

between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, a quarter of a billion miles

away. But we'll average better than a thousand miles a second. Be

there in three days of your time."



"How can there be a sea out there in space?"



"Oh, that's just my name for it. Most peculiar thing, though. There's

a vast, billowy sort of a cloud. Twists and weaves around as if alive.

Looks like seaweed or something; and Carr, I swear there are things

floating around in it. Wrecks. Something damn peculiar, anyway. I vow

I saw a signal. People marooned there or something. Sorta scared me

and I didn't stay around for long as there was an awful pull from the

mass. Had to use full reversal of the gravity force to get away."



"Now why didn't you tell me that before? That's something to think

about. Like the ancient days of ocean-going ships on Earth."



"Tell you? How could I tell you? You've been questioning me ever since

I first saw you and I've been busy every minute answering you."



Carr laughed and slid from his seat to the floor. He felt curiously

light and loose-jointed. A single step carried him to one of the

stanchions of the control cabin and he clung to it for a moment to

regain his equilibrium.



"What's wrong?" he demanded. "No internal gravity mechanism on the



Suddenly they were in the midst of a flock of great birds; birds that

flapped their golden wings to rise, then soared and circled like the

gulls of the terrestrial oceans. And these mechanical birds were fast.

Carr and Mado watched in fascination as they strung out in V formation

and led the way in the direction of the setting sun. Six, seven

hundred miles an hour the _Nomad's_ indicator showed, as they swung in

behind these ships of Europa.



       *       *       *       *       *



They crossed a large body of water, a lake of fully five hundred miles

in width. More country then, hardly populated now and with but few of

the gleaming roadways. The sun had set, but there was scarcely any

diminution of the light for the great ball that was Jupiter reflected

a brilliance of far greater intensity than that of the full Moon on a

clear Terrestrial night. A marvelous sight the gigantic body

presented, with its alternate belts of gray-blue and red and dazzling

white. And it hung so low and huge in the heavens that it seemed one

had but to stretch forth a hand to touch its bright surface.



Another mountain range loomed close and was gone. On its far side

there stretched the desolate wastes of a desert, a barren plain that

extended in all directions to the horizon. Wind-swept, it was and

menacing beneath them. Europa was not all as they had first seen it.



A glimmer of brightness appeared at the horizon. The fleet was

reducing speed and soon they saw that their journey was nearly over.

At the far edge of the desert the bright spot resolved itself into the

outlines of a city, the city of golden domes. Cones they looked like,

rather, with rounded tops and fluted walls. The mental message had

conveyed the most fitting description possible without words or

picture.



The landing was over so quickly that they had but confused impressions


"In addition to sparing your lives I'll place you both in high

position after we seize your respective planets. Make you chief

officers in the prison lands we intend to establish for your

countrymen. What do you say?"



"Will you give us time to talk it over and think about it?"



"Until the hour of departure, if you wish."



       *       *       *       *       *



Carr bowed, avoiding Mado's questioning eyes. He looked at Ora where

she stood at the side of Detis. She flashed him a guarded smile. He

knew that she understood.



Rapaju relaxed. He was confident he could bribe these puerile

foreigners to help him in the great venture. And sadly he needed such

help. The Llotta were not navigators. Their knowledge of the heavens

was sadly incomplete. They had no maps of the surfaces of the planets

to be visited. Their simultaneous blows would be far more effective

and the campaign much shorter if they could choose the most vital

centers for the initial attacks.



"Now," he said, "that we understand one another, let us talk further

of the plans. Then you will be able to consider carefully before

making your decision."



Rapaju could be diplomatic when he wished. Carr longed to sink his

fingers in the hairy throat. But he smiled hypocritically and found an

opportunity to wink meaningly at Mado. This was going to be good! And

who knew?--perhaps they might find some way to outwit these mad

savages. To think of them in control of the inner planets was

revolting.



They retired to a small room with Rapaju and four of his lieutenants,

Detis and Ora accompanying them. Ora sat close to Carr at the circular

table in Rapaju's council. Carr thought grimly of the board meetings

in far away New York.



Rapaju talked. He told of the armament of his vessels, painting vivid

pictures of the destruction to be wrought in the cities of Terra, of

throat. That devil of a guard! Why hadn't he killed him? He dashed

through the passage, Ora at his heels.



Sure enough, the crippled guard had dragged himself to the controls;

was manipulating the energy director as he had seen Mado do. They were

heading directly for the terrible monster of the heavens!



No need now to peer through the telescope. The thing was visible to

the naked eye. No power could save them! Carr hurled himself at the

guard and tore at the hairy paw which gripped the lever. The throbbing

of strange energies filled the air of the room, and Carr's brain

pulsed with the maddening rhythm. The red discharge appeared at the

projections of the control panels. He forgot the fleet of the Llotta,

forgot the menace to his own world. Only Ora mattered now, and he had

not the power to save her!



As in a daze he knew he was wrenching mightily at the body of the

powerful minion of Rapaju. His fingers encountered heated metal--one

of the ray-pistols. He felt the intense vibration of the weapon as its

charge was released. But he still lived. The beast who held it had

missed! Dimly he was conscious of the screams of Ora; of the yielding

of the creature who fought him. An animal cry registered on his

consciousness and he shook the suddenly limp Llotta from him. He knew

somehow that his last enemy was gone.



A quick glance showed him that Ora was still on her feet, braced

against the wall. The red veil was before his eyes. He grasped the

controls, and fought desperately to keep his strength and senses. A

streamer of horrid whiteness swung across his vision; slithered

clammily over the glass of one of the forward ports. They were into

the thing! It was the end! He groaned aloud as he fumbled with the

mechanisms and strove to formulate a plan of escape.



       *       *       *       *       *




_Wants Sequel_



     Dear Editor:



     I have read every issue of Astounding Stories though I can

     barely afford it. I like it very much. The best novels were,

     in order: 1. "The Moon Master"; 2. "Phantoms of Reality"; 3.

     "Spawn of the Stars"; 4. "Terror of Air-Level Six."



     In the July issue you published a story, "Earth, the

     Marauder," which promises to be even better than the

     "Skylark of Space" that once came out in another magazine. I

     like Harl Vincent, Ray Cummings, Arthur Burks, and Martian

     stories best. Interplanetary stories always agree with me.

     Burroughs is an excellent author. I like his Martian books.

     "The Beetle Horde" in the first two issues was very good.

     But why not give a sequel about the other and more terrible

     creatures in the earth whom the madman spoke of? Fourth

     dimensionals are sometimes good. You should have reprints by

     Burroughs, Cummings and Merritt. I am eagerly waiting for

     the next issue. Do not enlarge the magazine because I cannot

     afford it. Don't publish stories like "From an Amber Block."

     They're rotten. Publish more future and interplanetary

     stories.--Joseph Edelman, 721 De Kalb Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.





_Stands Pat_



     Dear Editor:



     I have read all the issues of A. S. since the date of

     publication and think that there is no other magazine like

     it on the market. I would like to offer a few suggestions

     contrary to most of your readers (i.e., Jack Darrow & Chas.

