

  SLAVES OF THE DUST           SOPHIE WENZEL ELLIS                  295



  _Fate's Retribution Was Adequate. There Emerged a Rat with a

  Man's Head and Face._



  THE PIRATE PLANET            CHARLES W. DIFFIN                    310



  _It is War. Interplanetary War. And on Far-Distant Venus Two

  Fighting Earthlings Stand Up Against a Whole Planet Run Amuck._

  (Part Two of a Four-Part Novel.)



  THE SEA TERROR               CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK                   336



  _The Trail of Mystery Gold Leads Carnes and Dr. Bird to a

  Tremendous Monster of the Deep._



  GRAY DENIM                   HARL VINCENT                         354



  _The Blood of the Van Dorn's Ran in Karl's Veins. He Rode

  the Skies Like an Avenging God._



  THE APE-MEN OF XLOTLI        DAVID R. SPARKS                      370



  _A Beautiful Face in the Depths of a Geyser--and Kirby Plunges

  into a Desperate Mid-Earth Conflict with the Dreadful

  Feathered Serpent._ (A Complete Novelette.)



  THE READERS' CORNER          ALL OF US                            421


scientist's weird revelation. "I get you," he said, rather inelegantly

for a professor. "You mean that if every living thing in the world

should pass out, every man, every plant, every animal, even down to

microscopic infusoria, the Mind would collect all its electrons, and

through some more jealous law of, er, cohesion hold these electrons

inviolate from matter and energy?"



"Right! And again, as in the beginning, the Mind would rule supreme. By

what I have proved, you and I and all other creatures that now have life

may, as separate unfleshed electrons, enjoy eternal consciousness as a

part of the Mind." A new passion leaped to his dark eyes. "When I have

finished my mission, no more need we be slaves of the dust, subject to

all the frightful sufferings of this dunghill of flesh."



He brought his fist down upon his skinny leg with a resounding blow.



"But you cannot reduce your theory to fact, Sir Basil!"



"No?" Again came that frightful grin to his cadaverous face. "Can you

withstand shock?"



"If you mean shock to the eye, let me remind you that I served two years

in the big fight."



"Then come to my laboratory. Better take another drink."



While Hale helped himself again from the _masata_ bottle, Sir Basil

swallowed another pellet.



Then the two went into the adjoining apartment.



       *       *       *       *       *



Sir Basil, his hand over the doorknob, paused.



"Before we go in," he said, "I want you to remember that we call natural

that which is characteristic of the physical world. Everything alive in

this laboratory was produced by nature. I merely made available the

materials, or, rather, I made the conditions under which matter was able

to enslave mind-electrons."



He opened the door, slipped his body through, and, with his ugly,

teeth-revealing grin, gestured for Hale to follow him.



Hale steeled himself and looked around half fearfully. The first glance



"Be calm, Aña, and tell me plainly."



Still clinging to him, she went on. "He told me that Aimu is a devil,

Hale. He showed me his hands and asked me if I could ever get used to

them and be--his squaw." The round gold breastplates and the necklace of

painted seeds clinked together over her panting bosom. "I told him about

you, Hale. And then he seemed to go mad. He said he'd kill Aimu

to-night."



"But, Aña! Why did he let you go, knowing that you would give the

alarm?"



"He didn't let me go." Her petaled lips parted in a faint smile. "I

escaped. Unani Assu tied me to a tree by the _igarapé_. Because he

doesn't ... hate me, he could not bear to tie me too tightly."



"Then he must be close to the laboratory now. If he breaks in upon

Aimu--oh, my God!"



Hale remembered the death-projector. If Sir Basil were in danger of

attack, he would not hesitate to touch the waiting button that would

broadcast death throughout the world.



He seized Aña's little hand and cried out: "Run, Aña! The only safe

place now is Aimu's laboratory. Run!"



       *       *       *       *       *



As they dashed on madly, Hale opened wide his nostrils to scent the

heavy, flower-laden air of the jungle. Any moment all this sweet, rich

life might vanish instantly. He had a horrible vision of a world devoid

of life, a world of bare rocks, dry sand, odorless, dead waters. For it

was life that greened the landscape, roughened the stones with moss and

lichen, thickened the ocean with ooze, and turned the dry sand into

loam--life that swarmed underfoot, overhead, all around!



And now, just as they reached the laboratory door, panting and frantic,

a hoarse shriek broke forth. Dragging Aña after him, Hale dashed

forward, conscious of two masculine voices raised in passion.



The door to the room where the life-machine performed its vile work was




The one at the instrument panel received a curt order: the weird voice

of the man in red repeated a word that stood out above his curious,

wordless tone. "Torg," he said, and again McGuire heard him repeat the

syllable.



The operator touched here and there among his instruments, and tiny

lights flashed; he threw a switch, and from one of the black openings

like a deep cave came a rushing roar of sound. It dropped to silence as

the end of a cylindrical car protruded into the room. A door in the

metal car opened, and their guard hustled them roughly inside. The one

in red followed while behind him the door clanged shut.



Inside the car was light, a diffused radiance from no apparent source,

the whole air was glowing about them. And beneath their feet the car

moved slowly but with a constant acceleration that built up to

tremendous speed. Then that slackened, and Sykes and McGuire clung to

each other for support while the car that had been shot like a

projectile came to rest.



"Whew!" breathed the lieutenant; "that was quick delivery." Sykes made

no reply, and McGuire, too, fell silent to study the tremendous room

into which they were led. Here, seemingly, was the stage for their next

experience.



A vast open hall with a floor of glass that was like obsidion, empty but

for carved benches about the walls; there was room here for a mighty

concourse of people. The walls, like those they had seen, were decorated

crudely in glaring colors, and embellished with grotesque designs that

proclaimed loudly the inexpert touch of the draughtsman. Yet, above

them, the ceiling sprang lightly into vaulted, sweeping curves.

McGuire's training had held little of architecture, yet even he felt the

beauty of line and airy gracefulness of treatment in the structure

itself.



       *       *       *       *       *



The contrast between the flaunting colors and the finished artistry that

of unlit clouds. The last distant aircraft had vanished from the skies;

not a ship was in the air--only the enveloping blanket of high-flung

vapor that blocked out all traces of the heavens. And then!--



The cloud banks high in the skies flashed suddenly to dazzling, rolling

flame. The ground under their feet was shaken as by a distant

earthquake, while, above, the terrible fire spread, a swift, flashing

conflagration that ate up the masses of clouds.



"What in thunder--" McGuire began; then stopped as he caught, in the

light from above, the reflection of fierce exultation in the eyes of the

scarlet one. The evil, gloating message of those eyes needed no words to

explain its meaning. That this cataclysm was self-made by these beings,

McGuire knew, and he knew that in some way it meant menace to him and

his.



Yet he groped in thought for some definite meaning. No menace could this

be to himself personally, for he and Sykes stood there safe in the

company of the councilor himself. Then the threat of this flaming blast

must be directed toward the earth!



       *       *       *       *       *



The fire vanished, and once more, as Professor Sykes had seen on that

night so long ago, the blanket of clouds was broken. McGuire followed

the gaze of the scientist whose keen eyes were probing in these brief

moments into the depths of star-lit space.



"There--there!" Sykes exclaimed in awe-struck tones. His hand was

pointing outward through the space where flames had cleared the sky. A

star was shining in the heavens with a glory that surpassed all others.

It outshone all neighboring stars, and it sent its light down through

the vast empty reaches of space, a silent message to two humans,

despondent and heartsick, who stared with aching eyes.



Lieutenant McGuire did not hear his friend's whispered words. No need to

name that distant world--it was Earth! Earth!... And it was calling to


strain on every face; the eyes told a story of sleepless nights and

futile thinking and planning. Blake's elation was short lived.



He was sent to New York and on into the state, where the laboratories of

a great electrical company had turned their equipment from commercial

purposes to those of war. Here, surely, one might find fuel to feed the

dying embers of hope; the new development must give greater promise than

General Clinton had intimated.



"Nothing you can do as yet," he was told, when he had stated his

mission. "It is still experimental, but we have worked out the

transformation on a small scale, and harnessed the power."



Captain Blake was in no mood for temporizing; he was tired with being

put off. He stared belligerently at the chief of this department.



"Power--hell!" he said. "We've got power now. How will you apply it? How

will we use it for travelling through space?"



The great man of science was unmoved by the outburst. "That is

poppycock," he replied; "the unscientific twaddle of the sensational

press. We are practical men here; we are working to give you men who do

the fighting better ships and better arms. But you will use them right

here on Earth."



The calm assurance of this man who spoke with a voice of such confidence

and authority left the flyer speechless. His brain sent a chaos of

profane and violent expletives to the lips that dared not frame them.

There was no adequate reply.



       *       *       *       *       *



Blake jammed his hat upon his head and walked blindly from the room.

Heedless of the protests of those he jostled on the street he went

raging on, but some subconscious urge directed his steps. He found

himself at the railway. There was a station, and a grilled window where

he was asking for a ticket back to Washington. And on the following

day--






McGuire's mind held only the desire to kill, and he would have begun a

staggering rush toward the shrieking mob that broke from the cover

behind them, had not Sykes held him fast. At sight of the weapon, their

own gas projector, still clutched in the flyer's hand, the pursuers

halted. Their long arms pointed and their shrill calls joined in a

chorus that quavered and fell uncertainly.



       *       *       *       *       *



One, braver than the rest, dashed forward and discharged his weapon. The

spurting gas failed to reach its intended victims; it blew gently back

toward the others who fled quickly to either side. Above the trees a

giant ship nosed swiftly down, and McGuire pointed to it grimly and in

silence. The men before them were massed now for a rush.



"This is the end," said the flyer softly. "I wonder how this devilish

thing works; there's a trigger here. I will give them a shot with the

wind helping, then we'll jump for it."



The ship was above them as the slim figure of Lieutenant McGuire threw

itself a score of paces toward the waiting group. From the metal tube

there shot a stream of pale vapor that swept downward upon the others

who ran in panic from its touch.



Then back--and a grip of a hand!--and two Earth-men who threw themselves

out and downward from a sheer rock wall to the cool embrace of deep

water.



They came to the top, battered from their fall, but able to dive under a

wave and emerge again near one another.



"Swim!" urged Sykes. "Swim out! They may get us here--recover our

bodies--resuscitate us. And that wouldn't do!"



Another wave, and the two men were swimming beyond it; swimming feebly

but steadily out from shore, while above them a great cylinder of

shining metal swept past in a circling flight. They kept on while their

eyes, from the wave tops, saw it turn and come slowly back in a long


the President."



"The Young Labor party? I thought that gang was bankrupt and out of

business, since the Coast Guard broke up their alien smuggling scheme."



"They were down and out for a while, but they are in funds again--and

how! They must have three or four millions at least."



"Where did they get it?"



"That's what we have been trying to find out. The leaders have presented

bars of gold to a dozen banks throughout the country and demanded

specie. The banks shipped the gold to the mint and it was good gold,

nine hundred and twenty-five fine. What we are trying to find out is how

that gold got into the United States."



"A shipment of that size should be easy to trace."



"It would seem so, but it hasn't been. We have accounted for every pound

of every shipment that has come in through a port of entry, and we have

checked almost that close on the output of every mine in the United

States. If the gold came from Russia, it would have had to cross Europe,

and we can't get any trace of it from abroad. It looks as though they

were _making_ it."



       *       *       *       *       *



Dr. Bird rubbed his head thoughtfully.



"Possible, but hardly probable," he said. "How much did you say they

had?"



"Over three millions in thirty-pound bars. Each bar shows signs of

having a mint mark chiselled off, but that don't help much for they have

done too good a job. It has us pretty well bluffed."



Again Dr. Bird rubbed his head.



"Telephone Admiral Buck, and then phone Bolton and tell him exactly what

I told you to: that you will be away indefinitely. When he gets through

exploding, tell him that you are going with me and that possibly, just

barely possibly, we might be on the trail of that gold shipment."

"Rough weather doesn't mean much to a sub, Commander. I expect that he's

our man. At any rate, the place we want to go is the end of that

tunnel."



"I'm at your service, Doctor."



"Carnes, get the location of that tunnel entrance from Commander Minden

and order the _Minneconsin_ to proceed north along the coast to that

vicinity and stand by for radio orders. I am going to telephone Mitchell

Field and get a plane. We have no time to lose."



       *       *       *       *       *



The plane from Mitchell Field roared down to a landing, and Carnes, Dr.

Bird and Commander Minden dismounted from the rear cockpit and looked

around. They had landed in a smooth field at the base of a rise almost

rugged enough to be called a mountain. A group of three men were

standing near them as they got out of the plane. One of the men

approached.



"Dr. Bird?" asked the newcomer. "I am Tom Harron, United States Marshal.

These two men are deputies. I understand that I am to report to you for

orders."



"I'm glad to know you, Mr. Harron. This is Operative Carnes of the

Secret Service and Commander Minden of the Coast Guard. We are going to

explore an underground cavern that is located in this vicinity."



"Do you mean the one where they used to smuggle aliens? That is closed

up. I was in charge of that work and we closed it tight as a drum two

years ago."



"Can you find the entrance?"



"Sure. It isn't over a mile from here."



"Lead the way, then. We want to take a look at it."



The marshal led the way toward the eminence and took a path which led up

a gully in its side. He paused for a moment to take his bearings and

then turned sharply to his left and climbed part way up the side of the


purple temporarily discarded for the gray, occasionally passed within a

stone's throw of the little shop, never suspecting the existence of such

a retreat amidst the dark shadows of the pillars. But to the initiated

few amongst the wearers of the gray, and to certain of the red police,

it was well known.



Rudolph Krassin, proprietor of the establishment, was a bent and

withered ancient. His jacket of gray denim hung loosely from his

spare frame and his hollow cough bespoke a deep-seated ailment.

Looking out from behind thick lenses set in his square-rimmed

spectacles, the watery eyes seemed vacant; uncomprehending. But old

Rudolph was a scholar--keen-witted--and a gentleman besides. To his

many friends of the gray-clad multitude he was an anomaly; they

could not understand his devotion to his well-thumbed volumes. But they

listened to his words of wisdom and, more frequently than they could

afford, parted with precious labor tickets in exchange for reading

matter that was usually of the lighter variety.



       *       *       *       *       *



When the fighting started in the Square, Rudolph was watching and

listening from a point of vantage in the shadows near his shop. This

fellow Leontardo, who was the speaker, was an agitator of the worst

sort. His arguments always were calculated to arouse the passions of his

hearers; to inflame them against the wearers of the purple. He had

nothing constructive to offer. Always he spoke of destruction; war;

bloodshed. Rudolph marveled at the patience of the red police. To-day,

these newcomers, obviously a slumming party of youngsters bent on

whatever mischief they could find, were interfering with the speaker.

The old man chuckled at the first interruption. But at signs of real

trouble he scurried into the shadows and vanished in the blackness of

first-level passages known only to himself. He knew where to find the

automatic sub-station of the Power Syndicate.



Returning to the darkness he had created in the Square, he was relieved

to find that the sounds of the fighting had subsided. Apparently most of

"Your son?" he asked gently. "Has he the triangular brand?"



The Zar was taken aback. "He has, yes. Why?" he asked.



"I have seen him in the Americas. He now lies wounded and in peril of

his life. What do you think of that?"



Karl was triumphant as the Zar paled.



"You lie, Peter Van Dorn!"



       *       *       *       *       *



But the beady eyes saw that the young man was truthful. Sudden fury

assailed the monarch of the East. A bell pealed its mellow summons and

three Moon men entered the Presence.



"Quick, Taru--the radiovision! Our ambassador in the Americas!" The Zar

was on his feet, his hard features terrible in fear and anger. "By God!"

he vowed, "I'll lay waste the Americas if harm has come to my son. And

you"--turning to Karl--"I'll reserve for you an even more terrible fate

than the vibrating death!"



The radiovision was wheeled in and in operation. A frightened face

appeared in its disc: the Zar's ambassador across the sea.



"Moreau--my son!" snapped the Zar. "Where is he?"



"Majesty! Have mercy!" gasped Moreau. "Paul has eluded us. He was

skylarking--in the lower levels of New York. But our secret agents are

combing the passages. We'll have him in twenty-four hours. I promise!"



The rage of the Zar was terrible to see. Karl expected momentarily that

the white flame would lay him low, for the anger of the mad ruler was

directed first at Moreau, then at himself. But a quick, evil calm

succeeded the storm.



"You, Peter," he stated, in tones suddenly silky, "shall have that

twenty-four hours--no more. If Moreau has not produced my son in that

time you shall be dismembered slowly. A finger; an ear; your tongue; a

hand--until you reveal the whereabouts of the heir to my throne!"



"Never! You scum!" Karl was on the dais in a single bound. He had the




How many had they brought down? Fifteen? Sixteen? He tore his purple

jacket from his body. The perspiration rolled from his pores. His own

ship would be next. But what did it matter? Kill! Kill! He shouted once

more into the microphone, then dived into battle. Another and another!

In Heaven's name, how many were there? It was maddening. If only he

could breathe. His lungs were seared; his eyes smarting from the heat.

And then it was over.



Three of the Zar's aeros remained, and these turned tail to run for it.

No! They were falling, nose down, under full power; diving into the city

from which they had come. Suicide? Yes. They couldn't face the

recriminations that must come to them. And anything was better than

facing that burning death from the strange little fighters which had

come from out the skies. Dorn was a mass of wreckage.



Karl tore at the fastenings of the ports, searing his fingers on the

heated metal. His pilot had collapsed, the little aero heading madly

skyward with no guiding hand. Air! They must have air! He loosened the

pilot's jacket; slapped frantically at his wrists in the effort to bring

him to consciousness. Then he was at the controls of the vessel, tugging

on first one, then the other. The aero circled and spun, executing the

most dangerous of sideslips and dives. A little voice was speaking to

him--the voice of the radio--instructing him. In a daze he followed

instructions as best he could. The whirlings of the earth stabilized

after a time and he found he was flying the vessel; climbing rapidly.



       *       *       *       *       *



A sense of power came to him as the little voice of the radio continued

to instruct. Here were the controls of the electronic motor; there the

gravity-energy. He was proceeding in the wrong direction. But what did

it matter? He learned the meaning of the tiny figures of the altimeter;

the difference between the points of the compass. Still he drove on.

colored throat, that the vision had appeared. Misty white amidst the

green gloom, the face had been turned up to him, smiling, its lips

forming a kiss, and its great eyes beckoning. Had the face been real or

a dream?



Eleven days in the valley! Now, with his braided rope ready at last, he

was going to do something which might help to answer his questions.



       *       *       *       *       *



Kirby reached out and began to run his grass rope, yard by yard, through

his hands, searching carefully for any flaw. A canyon wren made the air

sweet above him, while the morning sun began to wink and blink against

the shadows which still lay against the face of the guardian cliffs.

Kirby glanced at his watch and got up.



Crossing beyond the mouth of the geyser, he grinned good morning at his

friend the Conquistadore, and marched on into the shade of the live oak

which grew nearest the geyser. Here he made one end of his rope fast to

the gnarled trunk, inspected his pistol, patted his tunic to make sure

that the cylinder of gold was safe, then stood by to await the geyser.



With the passing of three minutes there came from the still empty

orifice a sonorous rumbling. Kirby grinned.



From deep in the earth issued a sound of fizzing and bubbling, and

then, to the accompaniment of subterranean thunder, burst loose the

milky, upward column which had never ceased to awe the man who watched

so eagerly this morning. As the titanic jet leaped skyward now, the

slanting rays of the sun caught it, and turned the water, fanning out,

into a fire opal, into a sheet of living color.



Kirby, hard headed to the last, drew from the supply in one pocket of

his tunic, a strip of one of the tuberlike roots, and munched it.



The thunder ceased. The waters receded.



After that Kirby hesitated not a second. Promptly he moved forward,




"Yes, if revolt proves necessary. And it probably will."



"Hum." Kirby scratched behind his ear. "You'd better tell me what you

can about it."



       *       *       *       *       *



Then, as they hurried on, Naida spoke rapidly.



The situation before the People of the Temple was that for a long time

now, the only children to be born had been girls. Worse still, not even

a girl had been born during a period equal to sixteen upper-world years.

The only remaining members of a race which had flourished in this

underground land for countless thousands of years, consisted of the

caciques, a handful of aged people, and the thirty-four girls, including

Naida, who accompanied Kirby now.



On one hand was promised extinction through lack of reproduction. On the

other, even swifter and more terrible extinction at the hands of the

ape-men, whom Naida called the Worshippers of Xlotli, the Rabbit God,

the God of all bestiality and drunkenness.



It was the menace of the ape-men, rather than the less appalling one of

lack of reproduction, which was making the most trouble now. Ages ago,

when the People of the Temple had flourished as a race, they had been

untroubled by the Worshippers of Xlotli. But now the ape-men were by far

the stronger; and they desired the girls who had been born as the last

generation of an ancient race. The battle of this morning had been only

one of many.



Dissension between the caciques, who ruled the People of the Temple, and

their girl subjects, had arisen on the subject of the best way of

dealing with the ape-man menace.



       *       *       *       *       *



Some time ago, Naida, heading a council of all the girls, had proposed


wrinkle of his parchment face. "But do you not remember that I said I

had _not_ come here because you summoned me?"



"Yes," Kirby said solidly. "I remember very well."



"The thing which brought me here was the failure of my followers to

accomplish an assignment which I had given them--namely, that of ending

your life."



"Hum." Kirby scratched behind his ear. "You are _not_ interested in

arranging terms of peace, then."



"I am here,"--suddenly the Duca's voice filled the room--"to do that

which my priests were unable to do. And the moment has come when the

Gods will no longer trifle with you. You dog! You thieving intruder!

You--"



Swiftly the Duca plunged one withered but still powerful hand into the

folds of his robe above the flaming girdle. Then his hand flashed out,

and in it he held--



       *       *       *       *       *



But Kirby did not get to see.



A strangled cry of terror smote his ears. Naida leaped toward him from

one side, while Elana, the lovely youngest girl, sprang from another

direction, hurled Naida aside, and stopped in front of Kirby.



Through the glaring room flickered a tiny red serpentine creature which

the Duca hurled from a crystalline tube in his hand. As the minute snake

struck Elana's breast, she gave a choked cough, and then, as she half

turned to smile at both Naida and Kirby over her shoulder, her eyes went

blank, and she collapsed gently to the polished stones of the

floor--dead.



A second later came squirming out from under her the ghastly, glimmering

little snake which had struck.



Slowly, while every mortal in the room stood paralyzed, Kirby stepped

forward and set his heel upon the writhing thing. When he raised his

boot, the snake was only a blotch on the floor.



The Duca was standing as still as girls and caciques. The laughter with




Kirby, wanting more details, made himself seem thoughtful.



"And what will happen to me, and to the girls, if I decline?"



Encouraged, the Duca made an impressive gesture.



"You will be left in the tower to die of starvation. Mine is not a

complicated offer. It should require no complicated decision. What is

your answer?"



Kirby dropped his carefully assumed mask of thought.



"My answer is this," he lashed out. "I will not leave! The tower is

ours, and we will hold it until you have accepted Naida's peace terms on

your priestly oath!"



"But if you stay in the tower you will starve!" thundered the Duca.



"No, we won't starve! We won't starve because we eat the food of

Ducas!"



       *       *       *       *       *



In silence, Kirby took from his pocket a strip of the sacred Peyote and

bit off one end of it. Suddenly the hush in the amphitheatre became

complete. As he watched Kirby chewing, the Duca gasped and choked.



"Moreover," Kirby announced with slow emphasis, "I have taken possession

of the weapons which you took from men of the upper world, and which

have already sent men of your race to their death. I have no wish to

kill either you or your caciques, but if you do not presently discuss

peace with me, you will certainly find yourself embroiled in a struggle

more bitter than the mild one of this morning."



With that said, he swung on his heel, and taking Naida's hand again,

started with her up the steps.



"I have nothing more to say," he called over his shoulder to a Duca

whose white haired majesty had been stripped from him.



"We're getting on," he whispered to Naida a moment later. "The best

thing for us is just to sit still now, and wait."



With the questions he wanted to ask Naida about her world becoming

in which the dual ceremony of wedding and coronation would take place,

he was waiting for the moment when the festivities would begin. Thus far

the Duca had done nothing. Yet Kirby's uneasiness would not leave him,

and he continued to be thankful that, if trouble should start, the Duca

might not find as many trumps in his hand as he expected.



A couple of hours after Kirby had left Naida and the other girls in the

garden, all had begun the two-mile journey from the castle to the small

plateau on which stood this temple, where the ceremony would be held.

Now, while Kirby waited alone, the Duca and his caciques had gone to

another wing of the temple. Naida, attended by her bridesmaids, had been

assigned to a cell of their own, and the rest of the girls were waiting

in the nave of the temple. Unable to attend the walk from their plateau

to this, the old people of the race had remained in their crystal

houses.



With ten minutes more to wait, Kirby rose from a bench on which he had

been seated, and began to pace his cell. It was this archaic pile of

stone, he finally decided, which was causing his depression. Unlike the

bright and cheerful castle, this place, older than any other building in

the realm, was squat, thick-walled, and gloomy. Here, in the dusky cells

which lined labyrinthine corridors, the early generations of the race

had found protection from outside dangers. All of which was all right,

Kirby thought, but just the same he wished he had insisted upon being

wedded in the brilliant and cheerful amphitheatre.



       *       *       *       *       *



But presently he stopped pacing and faced the door of his cell. Then he

breathed a sigh of relief.



From down the twisting corridors which wound out to the central nave,

stole the high sweetness of soprano voices, the whisper of flutes, and

the mellow resonance of little gongs of jade and gold. It was the signal


cat, and then came down on all four feet as it ambled out on the sand

and extended into the lapping river a tremendous beak studded with

teeth. A smell of crushed weeds and the musty odor like that of a lion

house filled the night. The tyranosaur--it was more like a tyranosaur

than anything else--breathed heavily and guzzled in great mouthfuls of

water.



Kirby sat perfectly still. He hoped the thing would go away. But the

tyranosaur did not go away. All at once it hissed loudly and stood up,

its eyes glowing green and baleful, and Kirby leaned forward.



From the water was slithering another creature with a gigantic,

quivering, jelly body. Kirby saw to his horror that, in addition to four

short legs with webbed, claw-tipped feet, there sprouted from the body a

number of octopus tentacles. From the scabrous mottle of the head,

cruel, unintelligent, bestial eyes glared at the rearing tyranosaur.



       *       *       *       *       *



One of the serpentine tentacles whipped out, slapped against the

tyranosaur's fore-shoulder to call forth a hiss and a short bellow. Then

other tentacles waved in the moonlight, and in a flash the tyranosaur

was enmeshed as by a score of slimy cables. He was not altogether

helpless. Suddenly the steam shovel of a beak buried itself in the jelly

body of the water animal, and there spurted out a flood of inky liquid.

The water animal emitted a sickening gurgle. But the tyranosaur's

advantage was only temporary. Closer and closer drew the ugly, scabrous

tentacles. The tyranosaur never had a chance. Its green eyes flared, the

shovel beak plunged and slashed, but never for a second did the

tentacles relax. As Kirby stared, he saw the water animal begin to back

up, dragging its gigantic enemy with it. For a second the whole night

was hideous with the sound of hisses, gurgles, dashing water. Then the

river boiled once and for all, and both animals sank in its depths.


reeled on his feet, as though black alcohol had befuddled him, then he

steadied himself, flung both arms above his head, and rolled out a

command which burst upon Kirby's ears like thunder.



It was as if the whole cavern of the lower world, and the whole of the

round earth itself, had been rocked uneasily, dreadfully by the

bellowing, crashing explosion of the drums. Maddened by the turmoil he

had let loose, the gargoyle-faced giant ape-man leered about him with

blood-shot, drunken eyes, and beat on his cicatrized chest with massive

fists. Suddenly he let out a bellow. Straight up into the air he sprang

in a wild leap. When he came down, he was dancing, and the portentious,

the sickeningly mysterious ceremony for which such solemn preparation

had been made, was begun.



Kirby drew a rasping breath. Knowing that there must be some definite

reason for the dance having begun just when and as it had, he looked

beyond the solitary dancing giant, on beyond the crowded legions of the

apes, toward the village. There, where the main trail from the community

approached the clearing, he saw precisely the thing which he had both

hoped desperately and dreaded terribly to find.



       *       *       *       *       *



Headed directly toward the clearing, moving down the trail with slow,

majestic pace, came a procession headed by a bodyguard of ape-men and

augmented by other men whose nakedness was covered by unmistakable,

unforgetable priestly robes of gray.



All at once the ape-people in the clearing began to scuffle apart,

opening a lane down which the procession might pass to the central

stage with its dancer, its ink spot orifice, and its fangs of tall

poles. Kirby, watching the congregation, watching the majestic approach

of gray robes through the night, wiped away from his forehead a sweat of

fear.



"I think," Nini called in a voice pitched high to outsound the drums,

"that the--the Duca is with them!"



people are gone, wiped out, but that if she will cast her lot with us,

we will not forget what she has done. Come on!"



With Gori leading them they ran, stumbling, recovering themselves,

stumbling again. To breathe became an agony. But not until many minutes

later, when they plowed into the cover of a fern belt whose blackness

not even the moonlight had pierced, did Kirby call a halt.



Here he swept a final glance behind him, listened long for sounds of

pursuit, and relaxed a little only when none came to disturb the night

stillness. However, that relaxation, now that he permitted it at last,

meant something.



The complete silence gave him final conviction that what he had said

about the whole ape-people being destroyed was true. As for the

Serpent--well, perhaps he was destroyed even as they were. Perhaps not.

In any case the grip which Quetzalcoatl held upon the imagination of the

People of the Temple had been destroyed by this night's work, and that

was what counted most. The Serpent would be worshipped no longer.



       *       *       *       *       *



Kirby reached out in the darkness and found Naida's hand.



"Come along," he said to all of the party. "I think the past is--the

past. And with Gori to guide us out of the jungle, and our own brains to

guide us through the jungle of self-government after that, I think the

future ought to be bright enough."



Ivana and Nini both chuckled as they moved again, and Gori, hearing her

name spoken in a kindly voice, twitched her ears appreciatively. Naida

drew very close to Kirby.



"What are you thinking about?" she asked presently.



"The--temple," he answered.



"About the crown which probably is still lying on the altar there?"



Kirby looked up in surprise.



"Why, I had forgotten about that!"



"What was it, then?"



