This time is bad in a different way, with no sharp edges but a kind of

a desolation.



Most people I know are feeling bad just now, because at Russett

College we finished our Final Examination five days ago and Results

are not due for a two weeks.



My friend B Laydon says this is yet another Test anyone still sane at

the end being proved tough enough to break a molar on; she says also

The worst part is in bed remembering all the things she could have

written and did not; The second worst is also in bed picturing how to

explain to her parents when they get back to Earth that _someone_ has

to come bottom and in a group as brilliant as Russett College Cultural

Engineering Class this is really no disgrace.



I am not worried that way so much, I cannot remember what I wrote

anyway and I can think of one or two people I am pretty sure will come

bottomer than me--or B either.



I would prefer to think it is just Finals cause me to feel miserable

but it is not.



In Psychology they taught us The mind has the faculty of concealing

any motive it is ashamed of, especially from itself; seems

unfortunately mine does not have this gadget supplied.



I never wanted to come to Earth. I was sent to Russett against my will

and counting the days till I could get back to Home, Father and

Excensus 23, but the sad truth is that now the longed-for moment is

nearly on top of me I do not want to go.



Dad's farm was a fine place to grow up, but now I had four years on

Earth the thought of going back there makes me feel like a

three-weeks' chicken got to get back in its shell.



B and I are on an island in the Pacific. Her parents are on Caratacus

researching on local art forms, so she and I came here to be miserable

in company and away from the rest.



It took me years on Earth to get used to all this water around, it

We have not gone into it properly when the cabin suddenly shifts

through a right angle. B and I go sliding down the vertical floor and

end sitting on a window. There is a jolt and a shudder and Ram mutters

things in Hindi and then suddenly Up is nowhere at all.



B and I scramble off the window and grab fixtures so as to stay put.

The stars have gone and we can see nothing except the dim glow over

the instruments; then suddenly lights go on outside.



We look out into the hold of a ship.



Our ten-foot teardrop is sitting next to another one, like two eggs

in a rack. On the other side is a bulkhead; behind, the curve of the

hull; and directly ahead an empty space, then another bulkhead and an

open door, through which after a few seconds a head pokes cautiously.



The head is then followed by a body which kicks off against the wall

and sails slowly towards us. Ram presses a stud and a door slides open

in the hopper; but the new arrival stops himself with a hand on either

side of the frame, his legs trailing any old how behind him. It is

Peter Yeng Sen who graduated the year I did my Field Work.



He says, Gopal, dear fellow, there was no need for the knocking, we

heard the bell all right.



Ram grumbles something about the guide beam being miss-set, and slides

out of his chair. Peter announces that we have only just made it as

the deadline is in seven minutes time; he waves B and me out of the

hopper, through the door and into a corridor where a certain irregular

vibration is coming from the walls.



Ram asks what is that tapping? And Peter sighs and says The present

generation of students has no discipline at all.



At this B brakes with one hand against the wall and cocks her head to

listen; next moment she laughs and starts banging with her fist on the

wall.



Peter exclaims in Mandarin and tows her away by one wrist like a

Engineering Class.



They put in a few months' work and sent home unanimous Crash Priority

reports the situation is _bad_, getting worse and the prognosis is

War.



Brother.



I know people had wars, I know one reason we do not have them now is

just that with so many planets and cheap transportation, pressure has

other outlets; these people scrapped their ships for factories and

never built more.



But.



There are only about ten million of them and surely to goodness a

whole planet gives room enough to keep out of each other's hair?



Well this is not Reasoning but a Reaction, I go back to the data for

another look.



The root trouble is stated to be that two groups landed on the planet

without knowing the others were there, when they met thirty years

later they got a disagreeable shock.



I cannot see there was any basic difference between them, they were

very similar, especially in that neither lot wanted anything to do

with people they had not picked themselves.



So they divided the planet along a Great Circle which left two of the

main land-masses in one hemisphere and two in another.



They agree each to keep to its own section and leave the other alone.



Twenty years later, trading like mad; each has certain minerals the

other lacks; each has certain agricultural products the other finds it

difficult to grow.



You think this leads to Co-operation Friendship and ultimate

Federation?



I will not go into the incidents that make each side feel it is being

gypped, it is enough that from time to time each has a scarcity or

hold-up on deliveries that upsets the other's economy; and they start

experimenting to become self-sufficient: and the exporter's economy is

upset in turn. And each thinks the other did it on purpose.



This sort of situation reacts internally leading to Politics.



There are troubles about a medium-sized island on the dividing line,

and the profits from interhemispherical transport, and the laws of

take a hand in it?



The trouble is, hearing M'Clare's voice has convinced me it is a Test,

I don't know whether it is testing my courage or my prudence in fact I

might as well toss for it.



Heads I am crazy, Tails a defaulter; Tails is what it is.



I seize my styler and write the decision down.



There is the slit in the door.



I twiddle the note and think Well nobody asked for it yet.



Suppose it is real, after all?



I remember the itchy, sweaty feeling I got yesterday and try to

picture really embarking on a thing like this, but I cannot work up

any lather today.



I begin to picture M'Clare reading my decision not to back up my own

idea.



I pick up the coin and juggle it around.



The speaker remarks When I am quite ready will I please make a note

of my decision and post it through the door.



I go on flipping the coin up and presently it drops on the floor, it

is Heads this time.



Tossing coins is a pretty feeble way to decide.



I drop the note on the floor and take another sheet and write "YES.

Lysistrata Lee."



Using that name seems to make it more legal.



I slip the paper in the slit and poke till it falls through on the

other side of the door.



I am suddenly immensely hungry and dial breakfast all over again.



       *       *       *       *       *



Just as I finish M'Clare's voice starts once more.



"It's always the minor matters that cause the most difficulty. The

timing of this announcement has cost me as much thought as any aspect

of the arrangements. The trouble is that however honest you are--and

your honesty has been tested repeatedly--and however strong your

What letter?



My brain suddenly registers a small pale patch been occupying a corner

of my retina for the last half hour; it turns out to be a letter

postmarked Excenus 23.



I disembowel it with one jerk. It is from my Dad and runs like this:



     My dear Liz,



     Thank you for your last letter, glad you are keeping fit and

     so am I.



     I just got a letter from your College saying you will get a

     degree conferred on you on September 12th and parents if on

     Earth will be welcome.



     Well Liz this I got to see and Charlie says the same, but

     the letter says too Terran Authority will not give a permit

     to visit Earth just for this, so I wangled on to a

     Delegation which is coming to discuss trade with the

     Department of Commerce. Charlie and I will be arriving on

     Earth on August 24th.



     Liz it is good to think I shall be seeing you again after

     four years. There are some things about your future I meant

     to write to Professor M'Clare about, but now I shall be able

     to talk it over direct. Please give him my regards.



     Be seeing you Lizzie girl, your affectionate Dad



                                                 J. X. Lee.



Dear old Dad, after all these years farming with a weather-maker on a


Mestah, Dillie Dixie, Pavel Christianovitch, Lennie DiMaggio and

Shootright Crow.



Eru is at the end of the table, opposite the door, and maybe feels

this position puts it up to him to start the discussion; he opens by

remarking "So nobody took the opportunity to withdraw."



Cray Patterson lifts his eyebrows ceilingwards and drawls out that the

decision was supposed to be a private one.



B says "Maybe but it did not work out that way, everyone who learned

Morse knows who was on the ship, anyway they are all still here so

what does it matter? And M'Clare would not have picked people who were

going to funk it, after all."



My chair gets a kick on the ankle which I suppose was meant for B; Eru

is six foot five but even his legs do not quite reach; he is the only

one of us facing the door.



M'Clare has somehow shed his weariness; he looks stern but fresh as a

daisy. There are four with him; Ram and Peter looking serious, one

stranger in Evercleans looking determined to enjoy the party and

another in uniform looking as though nothing would make him.



M'Clare introduces the strangers as Colonel Delano-Smith and Mr.

Yardo. They all sit down at the other end of the table; then he frowns

at us and begins like this:



"Miss Laydon is mistaken. You were not selected on any such grounds as

she suggests. I may say that I was astonished at the readiness with

which you all engaged yourselves to take part in such a desperate

gamble; and, seeing that for the last four years I have been trying to

persuade you that it is worth while, before making a decision of any

importance, to spend a certain amount of thought on it, I was

discouraged as well."



Oh.



"The criterion upon which you were selected was a very simple one. As

I told you, you were picked not by me but by a computer; the one in

the College Office which registers such information as your home

addresses and present whereabouts. You are simply that section of the

far suggested.



"It must be a limited threat. That is, it must appear to come from one

well-defined group. The rest of the Universe should appear benevolent

or neutral."



He just stops, rather as though there is something else to come; while

the rest of us are waiting B sticks her oar in to the following

effect.



"Yes, but look, suppose this goes wrong; it's all very well to make

plans but suppose we get some of Kirsty's side-effects just the same,

well what I mean is suppose it makes the mess worse instead of better

we want some way we can sort of switch it off again.



"Look this is just an illustration, but suppose the Menace was

pirates, if it went wrong we could have an Earth ship make official

contact and they could just happen to say By the way have you seen

anything of some pirates, Earth fleet wiped them up in this sector

about six months ago.



"That would mean the whole crew conniving, so it won't do, but you

see what I mean."



There is a bit of silence, then Aro says, "I think we should start

fresh. We have had criticisms of Lizzie's suggestion, which was not

perhaps wholly serious, and as Dilly says there is little of it left,

except the idea of a threat of invasion. The idea of an alien

intelligent race has objections and would be very difficult to fake.

The invaders must be men from another planet. Another unknown one. But

how do the people of Incognita come to know that they exist?"



More silence, then I hear my own voice speaking although it was my

intention to keep quiet for once: it sounds kind of creaky and it

says: "A ship. A crashed ship from Outside."



Whereupon another voice says, "Really! Am I expected to swallow this?"



       *       *       *       *       *



We had just about forgotten the colonel, not to mention Mr. Yardo who

"We shall detour to an uninhabited system twelve days' transit time

from here and make contact with another ship, the _Gilgamesh_."



       *       *       *       *       *



At which Lennie DiMaggio who has been silent till now brings his fist

down on the table and exclaims, "You _can't_!"



Lennie is much upset for some reason; Delano-Smith gives him a

peculiar look and says what does he know about it? and Lennie starts

to stutter.



Cray remarks that Lennie's childhood hobby appears to have been

spaceships and he suffers from arrested development.



B says it is well known Lennie is mad about the Space Force and why

not? It seems to have uses Go on and tell us Lennie.



Lennie says "_G-Gilgamesh_ was lost three hundred years ago!"



"The flaw in that statement," says Cray after a pause, "is that this

may be another ship of the same name."



"No," says the colonel. "Explorer Class cruiser. They went out of

service two hundred eighty years back."



The Space Force, I remember, does not re-use names of lost ships: some

says Very Proper Feeling some say Superstitious Rot.



B says, "When was she found again?"



[Illustration]



Lennie says it was j-just thirty-seven revolutions of his native

planet which means f-f-fifty-three Terrestrial years ago, she was

found by an Interplanetary scout called _Crusoe_.



Judging by the colonel's expression this data is Classified; he does

not know that Lennie's family come from one of the oldest settled

planets and are space-goers to a man, woman, and juvenile; they pick

up ship gossip the way others hear about the relations of people next

door.



Lennie goes on to say that the Explorer Class were the first official

exploration ships sent out from Earth when the Terries decided to find

out what happened to the colonies formed during the Exodus.

_Gilgamesh_ was the first to re-make contact with Garuda, Legba,

in whispers; Nick and P. Zapotec are exploring one of the Hoppers,

cargo-carrying, drop-shaped, and I only hope they don't hop through

the hull in it.



B and I having done a tour of the ship and ascertained all this have

withdrawn to the Conference Room because we are tired of our cabins

and this seems to be the only other place to sit.



B breaks a long silence with the remark that However often you see it

M'Clare's technique is something to watch, like choosing my statement

to open with, it broke the ice beautifully.



I say, "Shall I tell you something?"



B says Yes if it's interesting.



"My statement," I inform her, "ran something like this: The best hope

of inducing a suspension of the aggressive attitude of both parties,

long enough to offer hope of ultimate reconciliation, lies in the

intrusion of a new factor in the shape of an outside force seen to be

impartially hostile to both."



B says: "Gosh. Come to think of it Liz you have not written like that

in years, you have gone all pompous like everyone else; well that

makes it even _more_ clever of M'Clare."



Enter Cray Patterson and drapes himself sideways on a chair,

announcing that his own thoughts begin to weary him.



I say this does not surprise me, at all.



"Lizzie my love," says he, "you are twice blessed being not only witty

yourself but a cause of wit in others; was that bit of Primitive Lee

with which M'Clare regaled us really not from the hand of the

mistress, or was it a mere pastiche?"



I say Whoever wrote that it was not me anyway.



"It seemed to me pale and luke-warm compared with the real thing,"

says Cray languidly, "which brings me to a point that, to quote dear

Kirsty, seems to have been missed."



I say, "Yep. Like what language it was that these people wrote their

log in that we can be _certain_ the Incognitans won't know."



"More than that," says B, "we didn't decide who they are or where they



Presently we are all congregated at one end of the table as before,

except that Mr. Yardo is now sitting between B and me; when M'Clare

and the colonel come in he firmly stays where he is evidently

considering himself One of Us now.



"The proposition," says M'Clare, "is that we intend to take

_Gilgamesh_ to Incognita and land her there in such a way as to

suggest that she crashed. In the absence of evidence to the contrary

the Incognitans are bound to assume that that was her intended

destination, and the presence of weapons, even disarmed, will suggest

that her mission was aggressive. Firstly, can anyone suggest a better

course of action? or does anyone object to this one?"



We all look at Lennie who sticks his hands in his pockets and mutters

"No."



Kirsty gives her little cough and says there is a point which has not

been mentioned.



If a heavily-armed ship crashes on Incognita, will not the government

of the hemisphere in which it crashes be presented with new ideas for

offensive weapons? And won't this make it _more_ likely that they will

start aggression? And won't the fear of this make the other hemisphere

even more likely to try and get in first before the new weapons are

complete?



Hell, I ought to have thought of that.



From the glance of unwilling respect which the colonel bestows on

M'Clare it is plain these points have been dealt with.



"The weapons on Gilgamesh were disarmed when she was rediscovered," he

says. "Essential sections were removed. The Incognitans won't be able

to reconstruct how they worked."



_Another_ fact for which we shall have to provide an explanation. Well

how about this: The early explorers sent out by these people--the

people in Gilgamesh ... oh, use Cray's word and call them Lost

Kafoozalum anyway their ships were armed, but they never found any

enemies and the Idealists of B's story refused even to carry arms any

more.



(Which is just about what happened when the Terries set out to

rediscover the colonies, after all.)

day.)



The final result of our work looks pretty small. Twenty-three

"Personal Background Sets"--a few letters, a diary in some, an

assortment of artifacts. Whoever stocked this ship we are on supplied

wood, of the half-dozen kinds that have been taken wherever men have

gone; stocks of a few plastics--known at the time of the Exodus, or

easily developed from those known, and not associated with any

particular planet. Also books on Design, a Form-writer for translating

drawings into materials, and so on. Someone put in a lot of work

before this voyage began.



Most of the time it is like being back on Russet doing a group

Project. What we are working on has no more and no less reality than

that. Our work is all read into a computer and checked against

everybody else's. At first we keep clashing. Gradually a consistent

picture builds up and gets translated finally into the Personal

Background Kits. The Lost Kafoozalum start to exist like people in a

History book.



Fifteen days hard work and we have just about finished; then we

reach--call it Planet Gilgamesh.



I wake in my bunk to hear that there will be brief cessation of

weight; strap down, please.



We are coming off Mass-Time to go on planetary drive.



Colonel Delano-Smith is in charge of operations on the planet, with

Ram and Peter to assist. None of the rest of us see the melting out of

fifty years' accumulation of ice, the pumping away of the water, the

fitting and testing of the holds for the grappling-beams. We stay

inside the ship, on five-eighths gee which we do not have time to get

used to, and try to work, and discard the results before the computer

can do so. There is hardly any work left to do, anyway.



It takes nearly twelve hours to get the ship free, and caulked, and

ready to lift. (Her hull has to be patched because of Mr. Yardo's

operations which make use of several sorts of vapors). Then there is a

queer blind period with Up now one way, now another, and sudden jerks


165OE, 7320S, on Planet Incognita, approximately one hour before

midnight local time.



"Going on planetary drive as close as that will indicate that

something is badly wrong to begin with.



"Two. This ship will descend, coupled to _Gilgamesh_ as at present, to

a point seventy miles above the planetary surface. It will then

uncouple, discharge one hopper, and go back on Mass-Time. Estimated

time for this stage of descent forty minutes.



"Three. The hopper will then descend on its own engines at the maximum

speed allowed by the heat-disposal system; estimated at thirty-seven

minutes. _Gilgamesh_ will complete descent in thirty-three minutes.

Engines of _Gilgamesh_ will not be used except for the heat-disposal

and gyro auxiliaries. The following installations have been made to

allow for the control of the descent; a ring of eight rockets in

peltathene mounts around the tail and, and one outsize antigrav unit

inside the nose. "Sympathizer" controls hooked up with a visiscreen

and a computer have also been installed in the nose.



"Four. _Gilgamesh_ will carry one man only. The hopper will carry a

crew of three. The pilot of _Gilgamesh_ will establish the ship on the

edge of the cliff, supported on antigrav a foot or so above the ground

and leaning towards the sea at an angle of approximately 20° with the

vertical. Except for this landing will be automatic.



"Five."



The colonel's voice has lulled us into passive acceptance; now we are

jerked into sharper attention by the faintest possible check in it.



"The greatest danger attaching to the expedition is that the

Incognitans may discover that the crash has been faked. This would be

inevitable if they were to capture (a) the hopper; (b) any of the new

installations in Gilgamesh, especially the antigrav; (c) any member of

the crew.



"The function of the hopper is to pick up the pilot of _Gilgamesh_ and

also to check that ground appearances are consistent. If not, they

will produce a landslip on the cliff edge, using power tools and

explosives carried for the purpose. That is why the hopper has a crew

of three, but the chance of their having to do this is slight."



Not right now I reply, what for anyway?



"Miss Lee," says Cray, dragging it out longer than ever, "although I

have long realized that your brain functions in a way much superior to

logic I had not sense enough yesterday to follow my own instinct and

do what you do as soon as you did it; therefore that dessicated meat

handler got in first."



I say: "So you weren't picked for pilot? It was only one chance in

ten."



"Oh," says Cray, "did you really think so?" He gives me a long look

and goes away.



I suppose he noticed that when the colonel came out with his remarks

about No women in Gilgamesh I was as surprised as any.



Presently the three of us are issued with protective clothing; we just

might have to venture out on the planet's surface and therefore we get

white one-piece suits to protect against Cold, heat, moisture,

dessication, radioactivity, and mosquitoes, and they are quite

becoming, really.



[Illustration]



B and I drag out dressing for thirty minutes; then we just sit while

Time crawls asymptotically towards the hour.



Then the speaker calls us to go.



We are out of the cabin before it says two words and racing for the

hold; so that we are just in time to see a figure out of an Historical

movie--padded, jointed, tin bowl for head and blank reflecting glass

where the face should be--stepping through the air lock.



The colonel and Mr. Yardo are there already. The colonel packs us into

the hopper and personally closes the door, and for once I know what

he is thinking; he is wishing he were not the only pilot in this ship

who could possibly rely on bringing the ship off and on Mass-Time at

one particular defined spot of Space.



Then he leaves us; half an hour to go.



The light in the hold begins to alter. Instead of being softly

diffused it separates into sharp-edged beams, reflecting and

crisscrossing but leaving cones of shadow between. The air is being

We are hovering at five hundred feet. I can actually see the white

edge of the sea beating at the cliff. Mr. Yardo keeps making small

corrections; there is a wind out there trying to blow us away. It is

cloudy here: I can see neither moons nor stars.



Mr. Yardo checks the radio. Nothing yet.



I stare downwards and fancy I can see a metallic gleam.



Then there is a wordless shout from Mr. Yardo; a bright dot hurtles

across the screen and at the same time I see a streak of blue flame

tearing diagonally downwards a hundred feet away.



The hopper shudders to a flat concussion in the air, we are all thrown

off balance, and when I claw my way back to the screen the moving dot

is gone.



So is _Gilgamesh_.



B says numbly, "But it wasn't a meteor. It can't have been."



"It doesn't matter what it was," I say. "It was some sort of missile,

I think. They must be even nearer to war than we thought."



We wait. What for, I don't know. Another missile, perhaps. No more

come.



At last Mr. Yardo stirs. His voice sounds creaky.



"I guess," he says, then clears his throat, and tries again. "I guess

we have to go back up."



B says, "Lizzie, who was it? Do you know?"



Of course I do. "Do you think M'Clare was going to risk one of us on

that job? The volunteering was a fake. He went himself."



B whispers, "You're just guessing."



"Maybe," says Mr. Yardo, "but I happened to see through that face

plate of his. It was the professor all right."



He has his hand on the controls when my brain starts working again. I

utter a strangled noise and dive for the hatch into the cargo hold. B

tries to grab me but I get it open and switch on the light.



Fifty-fifty chance--I've lost.



_No_, this is the one we came in and the people who put in the new

minutes--maximum possible--and get out before it blows--out of the

water I mean. The fish-boat is not constructed to take explosions even

half a mile away. But the first thing is to find the fuse and I cannot

make out how _Gilgamesh_ is lying and therefore cannot find the door

through this bulkhead; everything is ripped and twisted. In the end I

find a gap between the bulkhead itself and the hull, and squeeze

through that.



In the next compartment things are more recognizable and I eventually

find the door. Fortunately ships are designed so that you can get

through doors even when they are in the ceiling; actually here I have

to climb up an overhang, but the surface is provided with rungs which

make it not too bad. Finally I reach the door. I shall have to use

antigrav to get down ... why didn't I just turn it on and jump? I

forgot I had it.



The door was a little way open when the missile struck; it buckled in

its grooves and is jammed fast. I can get an arm through. No more. I

switch on antigrav and hang there directing the light round the

compartment. No rents anywhere, just buckling. This compartment is

divided by a partition and the door through that is open. There will

be another door into the nose on the other side.



I bring back my feet ready to kick off on a dive through that doorway.



Behind me, something stirs.



       *       *       *       *       *



My muscles go into a spasm like the one that causes a falling dream,

my hold tears loose and I go tumbling through the air, rebound from a

wall, twist, and manage to hook one foot in the frame of the door I

was aiming for. I pull myself down and turn off the antigrav; then I

just shake for a bit.



The sound was--



This is stupid, with everything torn to pieces in this ship there is



Antigrav; the personal size is supposed to take up to three times the

weight of the average man. I take mine off and buckle the straps

through a convenient gap. I have my hands under the thing when M'Clare

sighs again.



He is lying on his belly but his head is turned to one side, towards

me. Slowly his eyelids open. He catches the sight of my hand; his head

moves a little, and he says, "Lizzie. Golden Liz."



I say not to worry, we will soon be out of here.



His body jumps convulsively and he cries out. His hand reaches my

sleeve and feels. He says, "Liz! Oh, God, I thought ... what--"



I say things are under control and just keep quiet a bit.



His eyes close. After a moment he whispers, "Something hit the ship."



"A homing missile, I think."



I ought not to have said that; but it seems to make no particular

impression, maybe he guessed as much.



       *       *       *       *       *



I was wrong in wanting to shift the computer straight away, the

release of pressure might start a hemorrhage; I dig out ampoules of

blood-seal and inject them into the space between the suit and the

flesh, as close to the damage as I can.



M'Clare asks how the ship is lying and I explain, also how I got here.

I dig out the six-by-two-inch packet of expanding stretcher and read

the directions. He is quiet for a minute or two, gathering strength;

then he says sharply: "Lizzie. Stop that and listen.



"The fuse for the Andite is just under the antigrav. Go and find it.

Go now. There's a dial with twenty divisions. Marked in black--you see

it. Turn the pointer to the last division. Is that done?



"Now you see the switch under the pointer? Is your boat ready? I beg

your pardon, of course you left it that way. Then turn the switch and

a guide. The sea is getting up and is dashing halfway to the door as I

crawl through. My boat is awash, pivoting to and fro on the grips of

the front "limbs."



I grab it, release the limbs and pull it as far back as the door. I

maneuver the stretcher on top and realize there is nothing to fasten

it with ... except the antigrav, I get that undone, holding the

stretcher in balance, and manage to put it under the stretcher and

pass the straps between the bars of the grid ... then round the little

boat, and the buckle just grips the last inch. It will hold, though.



       *       *       *       *       *



I set the boat to face the broken end of the ship, but I daren't put

it farther back than the doorway; I turn the antigrav to half, fasten

the limb-grips and rush back towards the nose of the ship. Silver knob

under the dial. I turn it down, hear the thing begin a fast, steady

ticking, and turn and run.



Twenty minutes.



One and a half to get back to the boat, four to get inside it without

overturning. Nearly two to get down to the sea--balance difficult. One

and a half to lower myself in.



Thirty seconds' tossing before I sink below the wave layer; then I

turn the motor as high as I dare and head for the shore.



In a minute I have to turn it down; at this speed the radar is

bothered by water currents and keeps steering me away from them as

though they were rocks; I finally find the maximum safe speed but it

is achingly slow. What happens if you are in water when Andite blows

half a mile away? A moment's panic as I find the ship being forced up,

then I realize I have reached the point where the beach starts to

shelve, turn off radar and motor and start crawling. Eternal slow

Turn, kick, out, step. I am swinging round away from him, let's hope

he finds it reassuring. I dare not look up but I think the light is

dimming. Turn, kick, out, step. Boxing the compass. Coming round

again.



And the cloud is coming over the moon, out of the corner of my eye I

see darkness sweeping towards us--and I see his face of sheer horror

as he sees it, too; he jumps back, swings up the weapon, and fires

straight in my face.



And it is dark. So much for Psychology.



There is a clatter and other sounds--



Well, quite a lot for Psychology maybe, because at twenty feet he

seems to have missed me.



       *       *       *       *       *



I pick myself up and touch something which apparently is his weapon,

gun or whatever. I leave it and hare back to the stretcher, next-to

fall over it but stop just in time, and switch on the antigrav. Up;

level it; now where to? The cliffs enclosing the bay are about thirty

yards off to my left and they offer the only cover.



The shingle is relatively level; I make good time till I stumble

against a rock and nearly lose the stretcher. I step up on to the rock

and see the cliff as a blacker mass in the general darkness, only a

yard away. I edge the stretcher round it.



It is almost snatched out of my hand by a gust of wind. I pull it back

and realize that in the bay I have been sheltered; there is pretty

near half a gale blowing across the face of the cliff.



Voices and footsteps, away back among the rocks where the man came

from.



If the clouds part again they will see me, sure as shooting.



I take a hard grip on the stretcher and scramble round the edge of the

cliff.





I forgot about the hopper come to that, there seemed to be nothing in

the world except me and the stretcher and the enemy.



Stretcher.



I say, "Is M'Clare--"



At which moment Mr. Yardo turns from the controls with a wide smile of

triumph and says "Eighteen twenty-seven, girls!" and the world goes

weightless and swings upside down.



Then still with no sense of any time-lapse I am lying in the big

lighted hold, with the sound of trampling all round: it is somehow

filtered and far off and despite the lights there seems to be a globe

of darkness around my head. I hear my own voice repeating, "M'Clare?

How's M'Clare?"



A voice says distantly, without emphasis, "M'Clare? He's dead."



The next time I come round it is dark. I am vaguely aware of having

been unconscious for quite a while.



There is a single thread of knowledge connecting this moment with the

last: M'Clare's dead.



This is the central factor: I seem to have been debating it with

myself for a very long time.



I suppose the truth is simply that the Universe never guarantees

anything; life, or permanence, or that your best will be good enough.



The rule is that you have to pick yourself up and go on; and lying

here in the dark is not doing it.



I turn on my side and see a cluster of self-luminous objects including

a light switch. I reach for it.



How did I get into a hospital?



On second thoughts it is a cabin in the ship, or rather two of them

with the partition torn out, I can see the ragged edge of it. There is

a lot of paraphernalia around; I climb out to have a look.



Holy horrors what's happened? Someone borrowed my legs and put them

back wrong; my eyes also are not functioning well, the light is set at

Minimum and I am still dazzled. I see a door and make for it to get

Explanations from somebody.




common use. Anyway, we've had transcripts of a good many broadcasts

from Incognita, the last dated four days ago; and as far as we can

tell they're interpreting _Gilgamesh_ just as we meant them to.



"The missile, by the way, was experimental, waiting to be test-fired

the next day. The man in charge saw _Gilgamesh_ on the alarm screens

and got trigger-happy. The newscasters were divided as to whether he

should be blamed or praised; they all seem to feel he averted a

menace, at least temporarily, but some of them think the invaders

could have been captured alive.



"The first people on the scene came from a scientific camp; you and

Miss Laydon saw their lights on the way down. You remember that area

is geophysically interesting? Well, by extraordinary good luck an

international group was there studying it. They rushed straight off to

the site of the landing--they actually saw _Gilgamesh_, and she

registered on some of their astronomical instruments, too. They must

be a reckless lot. What's more, they started trying to locate her on

the sea bottom the next day. Found both pieces; they're still trying

to locate the nose. They were all set to try raising the smaller piece

when their governments both announced in some haste that they were

sending a properly equipped expedition. Jointly.



"There's been no mention in any newscast of anyone seeing fairies or

sea maidens--I expect the poor devil thinks you were a hallucination."



So we brought it off.



       *       *       *       *       *



I am very thankful in a distant sort of way, but right now the

Incognitans have no more reality for me than the Lost Kafoozalum.



M'Clare came through alive.



I could spend a good deal of time just getting used to that fact, but

there is something I ought to say and I don't know how.



I inquire after his injuries and learn they are healing nicely.


