colorful figure. These qualities of his live again in the outlanders'  reminiscences and also of course his score of blood-feuds and the one  great feud that shook whole worlds in its final terrible settling--the  feud of Hawk Carse and Dr. Ku Sui.    Again and again the paths of the adventurer and the sinister, brilliant  Eurasian crossed, and each crossing makes a rich tale. Time after time  Ku Sui, through his several bands of space-pirates, his individual  agents and his ambitious web of power insidiously weaving over the  universe, whipped his tentacles after the Hawk, and always the tentacles  coiled back, repulsed and bloody. An almost typical episode is in the  affair which followed what has been called the Exploit of the Hawk and  the Kite.    It will be remembered--as related in "Hawk Carse"[1]--that Dr. Ku laid a  most ingenious trap for Carse on the latter's ranch on Iapetus, eighth  satellite of Saturn. Judd the Kite, pirate and scavenger, was the  Eurasian's tool in this plot, which started with a raid on the ranch.  The fracas which followed the Hawk's escape from the trap was bloody and  grim enough, and resulted in the erasure of Judd and all his men save  one; but the important thing to the following affair was that Judd's  ship, the Scorpion, fell into Carse's hands with one prisoner and the  ship's log, containing the space coordinates for a prearranged  assignation of Judd with Ku Sui.    [1] See the November, 1931, issue of Astounding Stories.    All other projects were postponed by the Hawk at this opportunity to  meet Dr. Ku face to face. The trail of the Eurasian was the guiding  trail of his life, and swiftly he moved along it.    There was work to be done before he could set out. Three men had emerged  alive from the clash between the Hawk and the Kite: Carse himself,  Friday, his gigantic negro companion in adventure, and a bearded  half-caste called Sako, sole survivor of Judd's crew. Aided sullenly by  this man, they first cleaned up the ravaged ranch, burying the bodies  of the dead, repairing fences and generally bringing order out of 
 "All right," the gentle voice answered. "Protected. Go ahead, old man."    The Hawk relaxed and his face softened. "How are you, Eliot?" he asked  almost tenderly.    "Just fine, Carse," came in the clear, cultured voice of Master  Scientist Eliot Leithgow, probably the greatest scientific mind in the  solar system, Ku Sui being the only possible exception. He spoke now  from his secret laboratory on Jupiter's Satellite III, near Porno, this  transcendent genius who, with Friday, was one of Carse's two trusted  comrades-in-arms. "I've been expecting you," he went on. "Has something  happened?"    "I'm concerned with Ku Sui again," the Hawk told him swiftly. "Please  excuse me; I have to be brief. I can't take any chances of his hearing  any of this." He related the events of the last two days: Judd's attack  on the Iapetus ranch, the subsequent fight and outcome, and finally his  present position and intention of keeping the rendezvous. "The odds are  pretty heavily against me, M. S.," he went on. "It would be stupid not  to admit that I may not come out of this affair alive--and that's why  I'm calling. My affairs, of course, are in your hands. You know where my  storerooms and papers are. Sell my trading posts and ranches; Hartz of  Newark-on-Venus is the best man to deal through. But I'd advise you to  keep for yourself that information on the Pool of Radium. Look into it  sometime. I'm in Judd's ship, the _Scorpion_; our _Star Devil's_ on  Iapetus, hidden in the jungle near the ranch. That's all, I think."    "Carse, I should be with you!"    "No, M. S.--couldn't risk it. You're too valuable a man. But don't  worry, you know my luck. I'll very likely be down to see you after this  meeting, and perhaps with a visitor who will enable you once again to  return to an honorable position on Earth. Where will you be?"    "In eight Earth days? Let's make it Porno, at the house you know. I'll  come in for some supplies and wait for you."    "Good," the Hawk said shortly. "Good-by, M. S."    He paused, his hand on the switch. There came a parting wish: 
and as one their eyes went to the radio loudspeaker. A contact question  was being asked in the usual way:    "Are you there, Judd? Are you there, Judd? Are you there, Judd?"    The voice was not that of Ku Sui. It was a dead voice, toneless,  emotionless, mechanical.    "Are you there, Judd?" it went on, over and over.    "The mike switch, Friday," the Hawk said, and then was at Sako's side,  his ray-gun transfixing the man with its threatening angle. "Play your  part well," was the whisper from his lips.    The switch went over with a click. Trembling, Sako faced the microphone.    "This is Sako," he said.    "Sako?" the dead voice asked. "I want Judd. Where is Judd?"    "Judd is dead. The trap failed, and there was a fight on Iapetus. Judd  was killed by Carse, and most of the others. Only two of us are left,  but we have Carse and the negro, prisoners, alive. What are your  instructions?"    A half minute went by, and the three men hardly breathed.    "How do we know you are Sako?" said the voice at last. "Give the  recognition."    "The insignia of Dr. Ku Sui?"    "Yes. It is----"    Carse's ray-gun prodded the stomach of the sweating Sako.    "An asteroid," he said hastily, "in the center of a circle of the ten  planets."    The unseen speaker was quiet. Evidently he was conferring with someone  else, probably Ku Sui.    "All right," his toneless voice came back at last. "You will remain  motionless in your present position, keeping your radio receiver open  for further instructions. We are approaching and will be with you in  thirty minutes."    Carse motioned to Friday to switch off the mike. Sako sank limply into a  chair, soaked with perspiration.    "Now we must wait again," the Hawk murmured, crossing his arms and  scanning the visi-screen.    *      *      *      *      * 
 "Yes," he whispered, "a reminder. I do not like to wear my hair like  this, Ku Sui, and I want you to know that I've not forgotten; that,  though I'm now in your power, there'll be a day----"    "But you wouldn't threaten your host!" the other said with mock  surprise. "And surely you wouldn't threaten me, of all men. Must I point  out how useless it has always been for you to match yourself, merely a  skilful gunman, against me, against a brain?"    "Usually," the cold whisper came back, "the brain has failed in the  traps it has laid for the gunman."    "Only because of the mistakes of its agents. Unfortunately for you, the  brain is dealing with you directly this time, my friend. It's quite a  different matter. But this small talk--although you honor----"    "Of course you intend to kill me," said the Hawk. "But when?"    Dr. Ku gestured deprecatingly. "You insist on introducing these  unpleasant topics! But to relieve your mind, I've not yet decided how I  can entertain you most suitably. I have come primarily to ask you one  trifling thing."    "And that is?"    "The whereabouts of Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow."    *      *      *      *      *    Hawk Carse smiled. "Your conceit lends you an extraordinary optimism,  Dr. Ku."    "Not unfounded, I am sure. I desire very much to meet our old friend  Leithgow again: his is the only other brain in this universe at all  comparable to mine. And did I tell you that I always get what I desire?  Well, will you give me this information? Of course, there are ways...."    For a moment he waited.    The Hawk only looked at him.    "Always in character," the Eurasian said regretfully. "Very well." He  turned his head and took in Friday and Sako, standing near-by. "You are  Sako?" he asked the latter. "It is most unfortunate that you had to 
see his craft. It's too much to suppose he could make it invisible.  Paint, perhaps, or camouflage. He might have a way of preventing, from a  distance, the registering of his ship on our screen. Oh, he's dangerous,  clever, deep--but somewhere, there'll be a loophole. Somewhere. There  always is." His tone changed, and he snapped: "Now be quiet. I want to  think."    *      *      *      *      *    His face stiffened into a cold, calm mask, but behind his gray eyes lay  anything but calmness. Ku Sui's easy assumption that the information as  to Eliot Leithgow's whereabouts would be forthcoming from his lips,  puzzled him, brought real anxiety. Torture would probably not be able to  force his tongue to betray his friend, but there were perhaps other  means. Of these he had a vague and ominous apprehension. Dr. Ku was  preeminently a specialist in the human brain; he had implied his will to  have that information. Suppose he should use something it was impossible  to fight against?    And he alone, Hawk Carse, brought the responsibility. He had asked  Leithgow where he would be, and he remembered well the place agreed  upon. He dared not lose the battle of wits he knew was coming!...    His eyes shot to the door. It was opening. In a moment Ku Sui stood  revealed there, and behind him, in the corridor, were three other  figures, their yellow coolie faces strangely dumb and lifeless above the  tasteful gray smocks which extended a little below their belted waists.  Each bore embroidered on his chest the planetary insignia of Ku Sui in  yellow, and each was armed with two ray-guns.    "I must ask forgiveness, my friend, for these retainers who accompany  me," the Eurasian began suavely. "Please don't let them disturb you,  however; they are more robots than men, obeying only my words. A little  adjustment of the brain, you understand. I have brought them only for  your protection; for you would find it would result most unpleasantly to 
 you, Carse, and me, and also Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow." He let  the words sink in. "Will you follow me?"    And so they went below again, down the spider ladder into the corridor.  There was nothing else to do: the guards, ever watchful, pressed close  behind. But a tattoo of alarm was beating in Hawk Carse's brain. Eliot  Leithgow again--the hint of something ominous to be aimed at him, Carse,  for the extraction of information he alone possessed: the whereabouts of  his elderly friend the Master Scientist.          CHAPTER V    _The Color-Storm_      The corridor was stopped by a heavy metal door. As the small party  approached, it swung inward in two halves, and a figure clad in a white  surgeon's smock emerged. He was a white man, tall, with highly  intelligent face but eyes strangely dull and lifeless, like those of the  coolie-guards. His gaze rested on Ku Sui, and the Eurasian asked him:    "Is it ready?"    "Yes, lord,"--tonelessly.    "Through here, then, my friends." The door opened and closed behind them  as they stepped inside. "This is my main laboratory. And there, friend  Carse, is the object which is to concern us."    With one glance the adventurer took in the laboratory. It was a great  room, a perfect circle in shape, with doors opening into the four wings  of the building. The walls were lined with strange, complicated  machines, whose purpose he could not even guess at; in one place there  was a table strewn with tangled shapes of wire, rows of odd-bulging  tubes and other apparatus; and conspicuous by one door was an ordinary  operating table, with light dome overhead. A tall wide screen placed a  few feet out from the wall hid something bulky from view. Carse noted  all these things; then his gaze went back to the object in the middle of  the floor which Ku Sui had indicated.    It was, primarily, a chair, within a suspended framework of steely bars,  themselves the foundation for a network of fine-drawn colored wires.  Shimmering, like the gossamer threads of a spider's spinning, they wove 
  Then came excruciating pain!    *      *      *      *      *    An electric shock suddenly speared him. His nerves seemed to curl up,  and for a second his mind was thoroughly disorganized before it again  took up the drone about Iapetus. Recovery ... dullness ... a kind of  peace--and again the shock leaped through him. It was followed by a  question from afar off:    "_Where is Eliot Leithgow?_"    Somehow the question meant a great deal and should not be answered....    Again the stab of agony. Again the voice:    "_Where is Eliot Leithgow?_"    Again the shock, and again the voice. Alternating, over and over. He  could brace himself against the shock, but the voice could in no way be  avoided. It was everywhere about him, over, around, under him; he began  to see it. Desperately he forced his brain on the path it must not  leave. He had forgotten years ago why, but knew there must be some good  reason.    "Iapetus, Iapetus--I have a ranch there--Iapetus, Iapetus--_Where is  Eliot Leithgow?_--Iapetus, Iapetus--I have a ranch there--_Where is  Eliot Leithgow_--I have a ranch there--a ranch there--Iapetus, a  ranch--_Where is Eliot Leithgow?_--_Where is Eliot Leithgow?_--_Where is  Eliot Leithgow?_" ...    After two hours and ten minutes the Hawk crumpled.    He was quite delirious at the time. The combined effect of the pain, the  physical and nervous exhaustion of the shocks and light, the endlessly  repeated question, his own close concentration on his Iapetus  ranch--these were too much for any human body to stand against. He lost  his grip on his mind, lost the fine control that had never been lost  before, the control about which he was so vain. And the lump of flesh  that was Hawk Carse gave the information that was tearing wildly at its  prison.    A stammering voice came from the heart of the color-sphere:    
 on the street or in the kantrans that lined it bore the mark of drink,  or the contemptuous, insolent expression bred by Porno's favorite drug,  isuan.    Around Porno was the constant threat of savage life; below it were  half-human savagery and mystery; above, in the very shadow of their  mighty engines of space, were the most vicious animals of all--degraded  men.    This was the Port o' Porno of a hundred years ago.    This was the Port o' Porno where Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow for  very good reasons had told Hawk Carse he would meet him. 574. The house  of his friend.    *      *      *      *      *    Night descended suddenly on the outlaw space-port that day the elderly  exile waited in vain for his comrade in arms Hawk Carse to show up.    There were six hours when the blasting heat received by Satellite III  from near-lying Jupiter would be gone, and in its place a warm, cloying  tropical darkness, heavy with the odors of town and exotic products and  the damp, lush vegetation of the impinging jungle. The night would be  given over to carousing; for these six hours the Street of the Sailors  came to life. It was a time to keep strictly in hiding.    In the middle of that night, when the pleasures of Porno were in full  stride, there emerged suddenly, from one of the dark, crooked byways  that angled off the Street of the Sailors, a squad of five men whose  disciplined pace and regular formation were in marked contrast to the  confusion around them. They were slant-eyed men, with smooth saffron  faces, and strongly built, and they were armed, each one, with both a  ray-gun and a two-foot black, pointed tube. But it was not their  numbers, formation or weapons that caused the carousing crowd to fall  silent and hastily get out of their path. It was, rather, the insignia  embroidered on the breasts of the gray smocks they wore. The insignia 
I just can't figure it, unless I fainted."    "Oh." The Hawk smiled. "Fainted. Well so did I, I guess. I suppose," he  went on seriously, "you couldn't tell whether the asteroid moved or not.  I mean toward Satellite III."    Friday scratched his head again.    "I guess I can't, suh," he replied. "I haven't felt any movement."    "The door is locked?"    "Oh, yes, suh. Tight."    "Very well. Now please be silent. I want to think."    He went over and leaned against the far wall of the cell. His right hand  rose to the bangs of flaxen hair and with a slow regular movement began  to smooth them. Lost in thought he stood there, thinking through the  situation in which he found himself.    He had expected, of course, to subject himself to great risk in keeping  the rendezvous with Dr. Ku Sui, but he had never thought he would be  endangering Eliot Leithgow also. It was torture to know he had put the  gentle old scientist into the Eurasian's web.    That was it: if he could not somehow shear through that web, he must  destroy Leithgow himself, and follow on after. The scientist would  prefer it so. For whatever Dr. Ku's exact reason for wanting the Master  Scientist was, it was an ugly one: that it was worse than quick death,  he knew full well.    Shear through the web. How? Where was the weak strand in Ku Sui's  cunningly laid plot? The Hawk visualized all he could of the asteroid's  mechanical details, and surveyed them painstakingly. Two great  port-locks flanked by little ones; secret opening combinations--not much  hope in that avenue. Judd's ship, resting above: could he reach it, and  raise it and douse the buildings with its rays? No; Dr. Ku had spoken of  defense rays--they would certainly be far more powerful than the  _Scorpion's_. Then, somewhere there were the mighty gravity-plates  batteries which motivated the asteroid and held it controlled in space.  The dynamos. Two men, working swiftly, might wreak an unholy amount of  damage in little time; in the resulting confusion anything might happen.  If!  
 Five faint lines appeared across the Eurasian's high, narrow brow.  "What?" he exclaimed. "Is this true? My servitors must be reprimanded  severely; and meanwhile I beg you not to hold their impetuousness  against me."    *      *      *      *      *    Carse could stand it no longer. This suave mockery and the pathetic  figure of his friend; the mention of raid and murder----    "It's all my fault," he blurted out. "I told him where you were. I  thought----"    "Oh, no!" Dr. Ku broke in, pleasantly protesting. "Captain Carse is  gallant, but the responsibility's not his. I have a little machine--a  trifle, but most ingenious at extracting secrets which persons attempt  to hold from me. The Captain couldn't help himself, you see----"    "It was not necessary to tell me that," said Leithgow.    "Of course," the Eurasian agreed and for the first time seriously; "but  let me suggest that the end justifies the means. And that brings me to  my point. Master Scientist, now you may know that I have for some time  been working toward a mighty end. This end is now in sight, with you  here, the final achievement can be attained. An achievement----" He  paused, and the ecstasy of the inspired fanatic came to his eyes. Never  before had the three men standing there so seen him. "I will explain."    His eyes changed, and imperiously he gave an order to his assistants. "A  chair for Master Leithgow, and one for Carse. Place them there." Then,  "Be seated," he invited them with a return of his usual seeming  courtesy. "I'm sure you must be tired."    Slowly Eliot Leithgow lowered himself into the metal seat. Friday,  ignored, shifted his weight from one foot to the other. The Hawk did not  sit down until with old habit he had sized up the whole layout of  laboratory, assistants and chances. The two chairs faced toward ward the  high screen; to each side stood the five coolie-guards; mechanically 
unthinkable, something of dread, would be revealed. The voice went on:    "These brains I wanted were not many--only six in all. Most of them you  knew, Master Leithgow, these men who constituted the cream of Earth's  scientific ability. Professor Estapp, the good-looking young American;  Dr. Swanson, the Swede; Master Scientist Cram--the great English genius  Cram, already legendary, the only other of that rank beside yourself;  Professor Geinst, the hunchbacked, mysterious German; and Dr.  Norman--Dr. Sir Charles Esme Norman, to give him his English title. I  wanted these men, and I got them! All except you, the sixth!"    *      *      *      *      *    Again Dr. Ku Sui smiled in triumph. To Eliot Leithgow his smile was  unspeakable.    "Yes," the elderly scientist cried out, "you got them, you murderer!"    "Oh, no, no, Master Leithgow, you are mistaken. I did not kill them. Why  should I be stupid as to do that? To these men I wanted so badly? No,  no. Because these five scientists disappeared from Earth suddenly,  without trace, without hint of the manner of their going, the stupid  Earthlings believe they were killed! Stupid Earthlings! Abducted, of  course; but why assume they were killed? And why, of all people, decide  that Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow had something to do with their  disappearance? I confess to having planted that evidence pointing to  you, but if they had the sense of a turnip they would know that you were  incapable of squashing a flea, let alone destroying five eminent  brothers in science! You, jealous, guilty of five _crimes passionel!  Pour le science!_ Credulous Earthlings! Incredible Earthlings! And here  are you, a hunted man with a price on your head!    "So for ten years you have thought I murdered those five men? No, no.  They were very much alive for eight years and very troublesome  prisoners. It took me eight years to solve the problem I had set myself.    
 every major subject, well fitting his brain for the position it holds.  All this, gathered here in one! The five outstanding intellects of  Earth, here gathered in one priceless instrument! Here are my advisors;  here my trusty, never-tiring assistants. I can have their help toward  the solution of any problem; obtain from their individual and combined  intelligences even those rare intuitions which I have found almost  always precede brilliant discoveries.    "For they not only retain all they ever knew of science, but they can  _develop_, even as brains in bodies can develop. Their knowledge does  not become outmoded, if they are kept informed of the latest currents of  scientific thought. From old knowledge and new they build their  structures of logic once my command sets them on. Wills of their own  they have none.    "I have not succeeded in all my secondary alterations, however. For one  thing, I have been unable to deprive them altogether of the memory of  what they formerly were; but it is a subdued memory, to them doubtless  like a dream, familiar yet puzzling. Because of this I imagine they hate  me--heartily!--yet they lack the will, the egocentricity which would  enable them to refuse to answer my questions and do my work.    "Frankly, without them this whole structure"--his hands swept out  widely--"my whole asteroidal kingdom, would have been impossible. Most  of my problems in constructing it were solved here. And in the future  other problems, far greater, will be solved here!"    *      *      *      *      *    Hawk Carse by now understood very well Dr. Ku Sui's purpose in bringing  M. S. Leithgow to his laboratory, and was already goading his brain in  search of a way out. Death was by all means preferable to what the  Eurasian intended--death self-inflicted, and death that mutilated the  brain--but there were no present chances that his searching mind could  see.    If Leithgow suspected what was in store, his face gave no sign of it. He 
  Dr. Ku Sui smiled deprecatingly and again shrugged.    "I have told you before that God helps those who help themselves. I have  always had splendid results from helping myself."    For a moment he looked away as he considered something in his mind. Then  to his veiled eyes came the old mocking irony, and he said:    "I think perhaps you'd like to observe the operations, my friend, and  I'm going to allow you to. Not here--no. I could never have you  interrupting; the series of operations is of infinite delicacy and will  require weeks. But I can make other arrangements; I can give you as good  as ringside seats for each performance. A small visi-screen might be  attached to one wall of your cell to enable you to see every detail of  what transpires here." His tone suddenly stiffened. "_I wouldn't,  Carse!_"    The Hawk relaxed from the brink on which he had wavered. A sudden mad  rush--what else remained? What else? For an instant he had lost his  head--one of the several times in his whole life. Just for an instant he  had forgotten his phenomenal patience under torture, his own axiom that  in every tight place there was a way out.    "That's much safer," said Ku Sui. "Perhaps you and the black had better  return to your cell."    Certain little muscles in the Hawk's face were trembling as he turned to  go, and his feet would not work well. The ray-guns of the coolie-guards  covered his every move. Friday followed just behind.    As the adventurer came to the door he stopped and turned, and his eyes  went back to those of the frail, elderly scientist.    The doomed man met the gray eyes and their agony with a smile.    "It's all right, old comrade," he said. "Just remember to destroy this  hellish device, if you ever possibly can. My love to Sandra; and to her,  and my dear ones on Earth, anything but the truth.... Farewell."    Carse's fingernails bit each one into his palms. He hesitated; tried,  but could not speak.    "All right, Carse--you may go." 
   The light struck straight down upon an operating table. At its head  stood a squat metal cylinder sprouting a long flexible tube which ended  in a cone--no doubt the anesthetizing apparatus. A stepped-back tier of  white metal drawers flanked one side of the table, upon its various  upper surfaces an array of gleaming surgeon's tools. In neat squads they  lay there: long thin knives with straight and curved cutting edges;  handled wires, curved into hooks and eccentric corkscrew shapes;  scalpels of different sizes; forceps, clasps, retractors, odd metal  claws, circular saw-blades and a variety of other unclassified  instruments. Sterilizers were convenient to one side, a thin wraith of  steam drifting up from them into the source of the light.    Four men worked within the brilliant shaft of illumination--four  white-clad figures, hands gloved and faces swathed in surgeons' masks.  Only their lifeless eyes were visible, concentrated on their tasks of  preparation. Steam rose in increased mists as one figure lifted back the  lid of a sterilizer and dropped in some gleaming instruments. The cloud  swirled around his masked face and body with devilish infernolike  effect.    All this in deadest silence. From the darkness came another figure, tall  and commanding, a shape whose black silk garments struck a new note in  the dazzling whiteness of the scene. He was pulling on operating gloves.  His slanted eyes showed keen and watchful through the eyeholes of the  mask he already wore, as he surveyed the preparations. Ominous Ku Sui  looked, among his white-clad assistants.    The Eurasian seemed to give an order, and a white figure turned and  glanced off into the surrounding darkness, raising one hand. A door  showed in faint outline as it opened. Through the door two shadows  moved, wheeling something long and flat between them.    They came into the light, two coolies, and wheeled their conveyance  alongside the operating table. Then they turned into the darkness and  were gone.    "Oh!" gasped Friday. "They've shaved off his head!"    *      *      *      *      * 
"So that's it," Friday said, dejectedly. "He saw me workin' on the lock  an' sent those guards here at once. Or else had them there all the  time."    *      *      *      *      *    The Hawk closed the door and considered what to do. Ku Sui's voice  returned.    "Yes," it sounded metallically, "I've an assistant posted here who's  watching every move you make. Don't, therefore, hope to surprise me by  anything you may do.    "Now I am going to resume work. Reconnect the screen: I've had the  burned-out fuse replaced. If you won't, I'll have it done for you--and  have you so bound that you'll be forced to look at it.    "Don't tamper with any of my hearing and seeing mechanisms again,  please. If you do, I will be forced to have you destroyed within five  minutes.    "But--if you'd like to leave your cell, you have my full permission. You  should find it easy, now that the lock is broken."    The voice said no more. Carse ordered Friday harshly:    "Reconnect the screen."    The negro hastened to obey. His master's gray eyes again fastened on the  screen. Fiercely, for a moment, he smoothed his bangs.    The laboratory flashed into clear outline again. There was the shaft of  white light; the operating table, full under it; the anesthetic  cylinder, the banks of instruments, the sterilizers with their wisps of  steam curling ceaselessly up. There were the efficient white-clad  assistant-surgeons, their dull eyes showing through the holes in their  masks. And there was the black figure of Ku Sui, an ironic smile on his  lips, and before him the resigned and helpless form of Eliot Leithgow.    The Eurasian gestured. An assistant found the pulse in Leithgow's wrist,  and another bent over him in such fashion that the prisoners could not  see what he was doing. Ku Sui too bent over, something in his hands. The 
 Their triumph had so far been a matter of but sixty seconds. The jangle  of the alarm bell continued ominously. It summoned resistance,  well-trained resistance; the defenses of the asteroid awoke to action.  Doors spacing the corridor behind now began to open, releasing dozens of  Orientals. Nor had these men heard Ku Sui's orders. They would shoot to  kill!    *      *      *      *      *    Three peering faces suddenly were in Hawk Carse's line of vision ahead:  three ray-guns were settling on him. His famous left hand, the gun-hand  that was known and dreaded throughout space, moved with the eye-blinding  speed that was necessary; his trigger finger bent only three times, but  each of the pencil-thin streaks of orange that spat forth brought down a  man, and he had struck without slackening his stride for an instant.    Twice more his ray-gun spoke, and then the goal, the entrance to the  central laboratory, was just ahead. Carse glanced back.    "Yes, suh!" a fierce voice yelled out to him. "Coming!"    Friday was bringing up the rear as fast as he could. He came sideways in  a zigzag course ducking and whirling constantly, and in between firing  promptly at any portions of enemy anatomies that dared project into the  line of the corridor. The Hawk covered the last few yards of his  retreat, and then they were together at the laboratory.    "The knob!" Carse ordered, spraying the corridor in general warning.    Friday tried it, but the door was locked. He hurled himself against it,  but it did not budge.    How to get through? On the other side of the door was Leithgow, and  probably Ku Sui; on this side they were trapped in a blind end. They  could never make it back down that gauntlet and live, and anything like  concerted action on the part of the yellows would do for them where they  were.    
help us?"    "What do you mean?"    The older man smiled, a little sadly. "Those brains--they once were  friends of mine. It's possible they'll answer our questions. It won't  hurt to try. We'll ask them how it might be possible to get out."    Hawk Carse cried: "Eliot, you've got it! There is a chance!"    But the negro shivered. The brains stood for magic, for ghosts--for  awful, unknown things he wanted nothing to do with.    Carse shoved back the screen concealing the infamous device.    "We know where this switch is, at least. If only the current's not been  turned off!"    "Probably not," the Master Scientist said, out of his own technical  thought-train.    Friday hung back, loath to be concerned. He looked askance at the thing,  his open mouth a small round circle.    The Hawk was at the switch, but his hand hesitated. In spite of the  emergency at the doors, in spite of his innate promptness of action, he  hesitated. This thing he was about to do--this awful human mechanism  before him--they were so weird and unnatural....    Then he heard a faint click inside the laboratory--in a place where no  one should be. Instinctively he whirled and crouched--and an orange ray  streaked over his head with its wicked spit of death. At once his own  ray-gun was up and answering to the spot where the other bolt had  started, and then he was flat on the floor and ceiling toward the wall  opposite.    *      *      *      *      *    A high wide panel in the wall had slid open, with only the faint noise  Carse had heard to mark its movement. For just a few seconds it stayed  open. The Hawk covered the last few feet in a desperate rush, but he  reached it too late. It clicked shut in his face, and there was no hold  for his hands when he tried to force it back. 
 tell me, old colleagues?"    He waited.    *      *      *      *      *    Fifty feet away from this scene, and missing almost all of it, was  Friday. From his post at the panel he kept throwing fearful looks at the  nearest door, which was shuddering and clanging and threatening any  moment to be wrenched off its hinges. A good thing--he was  thinking--that the doors were of stout metal. When one did go he would  get five or six of the soulless devils before they brought him down.    Carse waited tensely for the response--if one there was to be. His ears  were throbbing in unison with the regular crash of rams on metal, but  his eyes never left the convoluted mounds of intelligent matter so  fantastically featured by the internal radiance of the life-giving  liquid. Impossible, it seemed, that thoughts were stirring inside those  gruesome things....    "Please hurry!" he said in a low voice; and Leithgow repeated  desperately:    "How can we escape? Please be quick!"    Then the miracle of mechanism and matter functioned and again gave forth  the cold voice of the living dead.    "_It is my disposition to help you, Eliot Leithgow. On a shelf under one  of the tables in this room you will find a portable heat-ray. Melt a  hole in the ceiling and go out through the roof._"    "Then what can we do?"    "_In lockers behind the table there are space-suits, hanging ready for  emergencies. Don them and leave through one of the asteroid's  port-locks._"    "Ask if the ports are sealed," Carse interjected instantly.    Leithgow asked the question.    "_Yes_," replied the unhuman voice. "_But twice four to the right will  open any of them._"    *      *      *      *      * 
For a second, shaken by the terrible barrage, they fell back, leaving  several sprawled bodies on the floor; but they came right back again.    Leithgow got safely to the top of the pile and was snatched out to  temporary safety. Frantically Friday called down to his master; he  seemed on the point of jumping down into the fight himself. But Hawk  Carse had been party to a promise.    He was behind the structure of furniture under the hole he had made in  the ceiling. With one gun he spat death at the coolies, while the other  he emptied at the case of brains. Two stabbing streams of orange angled  from him, one telling with awful effect on the men only two score feet  away, and the other absolutely useless. All over the still-glowing case  it spat its hits, but the glasslike substance resisted it completely,  and remained unscathed.    Carse swore harshly. He hurled one empty gun at the case, turned with a  last salvo of shots at the coolies, and then was up on the pile and  leaping for Friday's hands.    They caught and gripped his, swung him once--twice--and hauled him  swiftly out. But as the Hawk disappeared he shouted down the case:    "I'll be back!"          CHAPTER XIII    _The Final Mystery_      On the roof, Carse quickly scanned their situation. They were standing  on the hub of the four-winged building. Far to the left was one set of  the dome's great and small port-locks; exactly opposite was the other.  Near the left hand ports; a little "north," lay the _Scorpion_. The  whole area enclosed was a flat plain of gray soil.    Looming over the great transparent dome hung the flaming disk of  Jupiter, so oppressively near that it seemed about to crash onto the  asteroid. Its rays poured in a ruddy flood over the settlement, clearly  illuminating each detail; and comparatively close against the face of  the mighty planet they could see the whitish globe of Satellite III. It  offered the nearest haven. They might arrive famished, but in the  power-equipped space-suits which Friday was lugging they should be able 
 But to try to pass through the port--that was bad judgment. It was only  necessary for Carse to hold bead on it and fire when they passed in  line.    This was the present "luck" of the adventurer. He might have sniped the  guards anyway, but he had it easier. From fifty yards away, prone and  carefully sighting, he took the three lives that had been so viciously,  so subversively altered by Ku Sui.    A moment later, the way cleared, he was inside the ship--and his  space-suit lay on the ground outside.    *      *      *      *      *    Rapidly the three groups of guards closed in on Leithgow and Friday. The  two men made their advance as uncomfortable as possible, but they could  do no accurate shooting at such difficult targets as crawling men, from  within the cramped interiors of their cumbrous suits. Not even Friday,  who was a crack shot. They could not hold out long--nor did they expect  to.    They had been too occupied to notice what had become of Carse. Within  their suits all was silence; they heard neither their friend's shots as  he struck down the three coolies nor their own. Quick glances at the  ship's open port revealed no one; nothing. Probably, they thought, the  Hawk was dead. Even if he were not, they would soon be. A matter of a  minute. Maybe two. Their suits were still intact, but they could not  remain so much longer. Ku Sui had this time ordered them destroyed.    And now half a dozen coolies were leaving the ring tightening around  them and creeping to the _Scorpion_ as additional guards....    It was then, in those last few seconds, with death staring them in the  face, that Friday did a magnificent thing. It happened that Carse saw  him do it as the adventurer jumped out of the _Scorpion_ again and with  frantic speed slipped into the space-suit he had left waiting. Friday 
