connotation in later years. But on closer inspection, a number of  little things became evident: the steadiness of his light gray eyes;  the marvelously strong-fingered hands; the wiry build of his  splendidly proportioned body. Summing these things up and adding the  brilliant resourcefulness of the man, the complete ignorance of fear,  one could perhaps understand why even his blood enemy, the impassive  Ku Sui, a man otherwise devoid of every human trait, could not face  Carse unmoved in his moments of cold fury.    His name, we know, enters most histories of the period 2117-2148 A.  D., for he has at last been recognized as the one who probably did  most--unofficially, and not with the authority of the Earth  Government--to shape the raw frontiers of space, to push them outward  and to lay the foundations of the present tremendous commerce between  Earth, Vulcan, Pluto, Neptune, Uranus, Saturn and Jupiter. But, little  of his fascinating character may be gleaned from the dry words of  history; and it is Hawk Carse the adventurer, he of the spitting  ray-gun and the phenomenal draw, of the reckless space ship  maneuverings, of the queer bangs of flaxen hair that from a certain  year hid his forehead, of the score of blood feuds and the one great  feud that jarred nations in its final terrible settling--it is with  that man we are concerned here.    A number of his exploits never recorded are still among the favorite  yarns spun by lonely outlanders in the scattered trading posts of the  planets, and among them is that of his final encounter with Judd the  Kite. It shows typically the cold deadliness, the prompt repaying of a  blood debt, the nerveless daring that were the outstanding qualities  of this almost legendary figure.    It began one crisp, early morning on Iapetus, and it ended on Iapetus,  with the streaks of ray-guns searing the air; and it explains why  there are two square mounds of soil on Iapetus, eighth satellite of  Saturn.    *       *       *       *       * 
 all in the same motion, and then the negro's neck muscles corded as he  listened to the sounds that came, choking and barely intelligible,  from a loudspeaker:    "Carse--Hawk Carse--Crane speaking from the ranch. We're  besieged--pirate ship--outnumbered--can't hold out much longer. We got  most of the cargo inside here, but our generators--they're  weakening--and I'm fading, I guess, and the others that're left are  wounded. Carse--hurry--hurry...."    Five words went back into the microphone before the receiver went  dead.    "I'm coming, Crane! Hold on!"    Friday had seen the Hawk in such moments before, and he knew the  sight; but the navigator, Harkness, had not been with Carse very long,  and now he stood silent, motionless, while despite himself a shiver  ran down his spine as he stared at the tight-pressed bloodless lips  and the gray eyes, cold now as space. He started nervously when the  Hawk turned and looked him in the eye.    "I want speed," came his quiet, soft, deceptive voice. "I want that  hour's running time sliced by a third. Streak through that  atmosphere."    "Yes, suh!" answered Friday.    "And you"--to Harkness--"be very sure you get out every ounce she's  got. Tell the engineer personally."    "Full speed. Yes, sir," said the navigator, and felt relieved when  Carse turned his eyes away. For the Hawk, as always when he learned  that property had been ravaged and his friends shot down, seemed less  human than the Indrots at the far end of the frigid deeps of space he  roamed. His face was mask-like, graven, totally expressionless: blood  had been shed, and for each ounce another had to be spilled to balance  the scales. At a speaking tube that reached aft to the three other  members of the crew, he whispered: "Fighting posts. Arm and be ready  for action. Pirates are attacking ranch," and then went noiselessly to  the forward electelscope. Meanwhile Friday kept his eyes strictly on  the dials before him and held the space-stick rigid, while aft, in the  ship's other compartments, three men strapped on ray-gun belts and  wondered who was doomed to be caught in the swoop of the Hawk. 
  CHAPTER II    _Pursuit_      That was the Hawk's method, and it had given him the name which he had  made famous. It was characteristic of the man that he preferred to  strike at an enemy ship in a wild, breath-taking swoop, even as the  fierce hawk plummets from high heaven to sink its talons deep into the  flesh of its more sluggish prey. Nerves were uncomfortable things to  have on such occasions, and Harkness had them, and accordingly he felt  his heart hammer and something tight seemed to bind his throat. He  tried to assume the unshakable calmness of the motionless figure at  the stick, but could not, for his body was only flesh and blood--and  Hawk Carse was tempered, frosty, steel. Through staring eyes the  navigator watched the surface of Iapetus rushing into the bow ports,  watched it spread accelerating outward, until he could plainly see the  pirate ship lying there, and the nearby figures of men tugging at the  heavy boxes of horns.    His eyes were on those figures when they broke. First they teetered  hesitantly a moment, glancing wildly around and up at the vision of  death that was coming like a silver comet from the skies, and then  they melted apart. Three scrambled towards the rim of jungle foliage  close at hand, while their fellows leaped in the other direction,  trying to make an open port in their craft. Harkness saw them tumble  headlong through it and slam it shut. Then a web of blue streaks  appeared around the ship, and softened until her hull was bathed is  ghostly bluish light.    "Their defensive ray-web's on, sir!" he managed to gasp. Carse, though  close, might not have heard, so intently was he watching. The altitude  dial's pointer reached for one thousand and slid past. Harkness's face  was pale and drawn; his tight-gripped fingers and clenched teeth  showed that he expected to crash into the ground in a molten,  shapeless tomb of steel. But Friday was grinning, his teeth a slash of  white.    "Stand by bow projectors," sounded the Hawk's clipped voice. The negro  extended his hands and rumbled:    
 outsprawled thing that had once been a man. Stooping, he very gently  turned the mess of charred flesh over and peered at what was left of  the face. There were small, burnt holes in it, and the flesh  surrounding them looked as though it had been suspended for some time  over a slow fire....    Carse rose and stared into space.    "Ruthers, a guard," he said softly, as if speaking to himself. He  walked on.    Another heap of flesh was pitched before the front wall of the  ranch-house. The man it had been a little while before had evidently  been running for the door when the deadly rays had got him. His  ray-gun was lying a few feet away. Again Carse stooped and again very  gently pulled the ragged thing over.    "By God!" stammered Harkness suddenly, staring, his face white,  "that--that's Jack O'Fallon--old Jack O'Fallon! Why, we went to  navigation school together! We--"    "Yes," said the Hawk, "O'Fallon, overseer." He stepped into the house.  Friday, impassive and grim, pulled Harkness away from the distorted  body.    *       *       *       *       *    Three more were tumbled together behind a splintered table in the main  room. The rays had done their work well. Three were welded, it seemed,  into one.... It was some time before the Hawk's frigid whisper came.    "Martin ... Olafson ... and this--Antil ... Antil was the only  Venusian I ever liked...."    The chairs and tables in the room were overturned, most of them bore  the seared scars of ray-guns, which showed plainly enough that there  had been a desperate last minute hand-to-hand struggle there, after  the defensive ray-web had failed and the pirates rushed the building.  The radio alcove was choked with seared, cracked wreckage. Crane, the  operator, still sat in his seat, but he was slumped over forward, and  his head and chest were pitted with slanting ray holes. One hand had  been reaching for a dial. The other was twisted and charred. 
Iapetus and provoked the vengeance of the Hawk....          CHAPTER III    _Death Rides the Star Devil_      Usually, when pursuing an enemy, Hawk Carse was impassive and grim,  apparently emotionless, icy. But now he seemed somehow disturbed.    He fidgeted around, glancing occasionally at the visi-screen to make  sure his quarry was not changing course, now watching Friday juggle  through the skin of atmosphere into outer space, and now standing  apart, silent and solitary, brooding.    There was something about the affair he didn't like. Something that  was deeply hidden, that could not be grasped clearly; that might, on  the other hand, be pure imagination. And yet, why--    Why, for instance, had the brigands taken to their heels with just the  barest semblance of fight? Why, with their defensive ray-web proof for  some time at least against his offensive rays, had they left without  more of a struggle for the horn? Why were they so willing to flee,  knowing as they must that he, the Hawk, would follow? Did they not  know he had--thanks to Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow--the fastest  ship in space, and would inevitably overtake them?    Were they Ku Sui's men? It seemed so, certainly, from the great  strength of their defensive ray-web. No other ships that he knew of in  space save Ku Sui's possessed such power. But--it wasn't the brilliant  Eurasian's customary style. It was too simple for him.    Carse stroked his bangs. The factors were all mixed up. He didn't like  it.    Iapetus' atmosphere was left behind; in minutes the light blue wash of  her sky changed to the hard, frigid blackness of lifeless space. The  _Star Devil's_ lighting tubes glowed softly, though Saturn's rays,  coming through the wide bow windows, still lit every object in the  control cabin with hard and dazzling brilliancy. Inside, light and  color, life and action; outside, the eternal, sable void, sprinkled  with its millions of sparkling motes of worlds. And ahead--shown now  on the visa-screen only by the light dots of its ports--was the  brigand craft.    The _Star Devil_ was smoothly building up the speed that would 
 trading ships. Often they had plunged on isolated trading posts and  left their factors wallowing in their life blood. And more....    There are things that cannot be set down in print, that the carefully  edited history books only hint at, and into this class fell many of  the Kite's deeds. He was a master of the Venusian tortures. He and his  band during the unspeakable debauches which always followed a  successful raid would amuse themselves by practising certain of these  tortures on the day's captives; and his victims, both men and women,  would see and feel indescribable things, and Death would be kept most  carefully away until the last ounce of life and pain had been squeezed  quite dry.    "Judd the Kite," Carse repeated in a hardly audible whisper. "Judd the  Kite ... one of the five...." Slowly his left hand rose and smoothed  his long bangs of flaxen hair. "I have been looking for him."    "Will you reply to him, sir?" asked Harkness.    "What use? His trap--Ku Sui's trap, of course--has already been set."  His brain raced. "What could it be?" he whispered slowly.    *       *       *       *       *    Friday was scratching his woolly hair, his smooth face puzzled, when  Carse, with the crisp decisiveness that always came to him when in  action, looked up at the visi-screen. The brigand was still clinging  to a straight course, and being overhauled rapidly. Another thirty  minutes and they would be within striking distance. He said tersely:    "Set up the defensive web. Spiral and zig-zag the ship all you dare,  altering the period of the swing each time. Harkness, you and I are  going to make an inspection tour. General alarm if Judd's course  changes, Friday."    "Yes, suh." The negro, frowning, gave his undivided attention to his  instruments as the Hawk and Harkness went aft into the next  compartment, the engine room.    It looked quite normal. The great dynamos were humming smoothly; the 
five seconds. Yes--one for each of the five men you did _not_ kill.  Shall I count them off? All right. You have till the fifth.    "One."    Friday's big eyes rolled nervously; he wiped a drop of sweat from his  brow and cursed.    "Two."    *       *       *       *       *    He glanced at the Hawk, and tried himself to assume the unshakable  steely calm of the great adventurer. But his fists would clench and  unclench as he stared up at the visi-screen. No change! The brigand  was running straight ahead as ever, apparently fleeing.    "Three."    The negro's breath came more quickly; the tendons of his neck stood  sharply out, and his powerful arms twitched nervously. "What's he  goin' to do, suh? What's he goin' to do?" he asked hoarsely. "What's  he goin' to do?"    "Four."    "Change course--a-starboard!" Carse rapped. The space-stick moved a  little, all Friday dared, at their speed; the position dials swung;  the dot of a fixed star that had been visible a moment before through  the bow windows was now gone. Till the fifth, Judd had said.    "Five!"    The two men in the control cabin of the _Star Devil_ peered at each  other. One of them licked his lips and wiped the sweat from his brow.  But there was nothing. No sound, no change. No general alarm bell. No  offensive ray spearing across the reaches of space; no slightest  change in the brigand's course. He who had mopped the sweat away  laughed loud and long in overwhelming relief.    "All foolishment!" he gurgled. "That Judd, he crazy. Try to scare us,  I guess--huh! Try to--"    "_What's that?_" whispered Hawk Carse.    A sudden faint rustle of noise, of movement, had breathed through the  ship.    At first it was hardly discernible; but it grew. It grew with  paralyzing rapidity into a low but steady murmur, blended soon with 
 advance of the fungus and checking the fastenings of their suits.    Carse reached him in three steps, stooped, brushed the fungus off the  face-shield and peered through. Friday looked over his shoulder. The  yellow enemy had laid its deadly fingers on Harkness's fine pale face.  Sprouts of yellow trailed from the nostrils; the mouth was a clump of  it; tendrils of spongy substance had climbed out the ears and were  still threading rapidly over the head, even as the Hawk and Friday  watched.    "That's how the others died," the adventurer said slowly. "Harkness  must have carried a bit of the stuff from aft. It was on him when he  put on his suit. At least I hope so. If it can get into these  suits...." He left the thought unfinished.    "You mean, suh," asked Friday haltingly, "you mean that maybe--maybe  it'll get in our suits too?"    "Maybe," said Carse without emotion.    They waited.          CHAPTER IV    _The Hawk Prepares a Surprise_      Hawk Carse's icy poise in times of emotional stress never failed to  amaze friends and enemies alike. Most of them swore he had no nerves,  and that in that way he was not human. This estimate, of course, is  foolish; Carse was perhaps too human, as was proved by the  all-consuming object of his life. It was rather, probably, an inward  vanity that made him stand composed as a statue while death was  gnawing near; that had, once, led him actually to file his nails when  apparently trapped and hotly besieged, with the wicked hiss of  ray-guns all around.    And so he stood within his suit now--calm, quite collected, his face  graven, while the yellow tendrils carpeted the whole cabin, penetrated  between the twin banks of instruments on each side and clouded the bow  windows, visi-screen and positionals until the two living men aboard  that ship of death were completely shut off from outside vision.  Friday, his large white eyes never for a moment still, and waiting as  the Hawk was waiting to find whether or not their suits, too, harbored 
There wasn't more than an inch of the fungus, but that inch stuck.  There was no removing it.    "No use, boss," gasped the negro, pausing breathless. "Cain't do it.  Nothin' to do, I guess, but wait an' see what de Kite does. He'll sure  want this ship and the horn."    "I know," his captain answered slowly. "He'll want this ship, for it's  the fastest in space--but I can't understand how he'll board us. I'm  going up and see what I can find out. You stay here. Try cleaning the  plates again."    Up through the man-hole he went, and forward to the control cabin.  And, as before, the electelscope's eye-piece held a surprise for him.    Somehow, the _Star Devil's_ speed of wild tumbling had lessened. A  moment later the reason appeared. As her bow dipped down and down,  there slid across the field of view, about a mile away, the lighted  ports of another ship; and, from this other ship's nose there winked a  spot of green, the beginning of a ray-stream which stabbed across the  gulf to impinge on the _Star Devil's_ bow. Carse could feel his craft  steady as it struck. It was a gravital ray, with strong magnetic  properties, which Judd was using to stop her turnings so he and his  men could board!    *       *       *       *       *    Again and again the beam flashed across the Hawk's field of view, and  he knew it was raying its mark neatly each time her bow swung abeam,  for soon she was hardly turning at all. Then Judd evidently was  satisfied. The port-lights of his ship veered aside; drew to a  position abreast of the other. The two cold gray eyes that watched saw  the outer port-lock door of the pirate open, revealing six figures,  clad in space-suits and connected by a rope, that stepped out, pushed,  and came floating towards the _Star Devil_.    Swiftly Carse moved. For many reasons it was useless, he rapidly  
 Carse switched off the light. His voice was but faintly audible.    "Coming down to clean off the dust. He'll have a flash. Hide behind  the truss-work at your side, and when he gets here seize him by the  neck. I'll be with you right away. I want no noise."    Friday saw a great light, and grinned in the confidence it brought  him. Of course! That explained the rope. The plan was so simple it had  escaped him. Already he felt cheerful. It was only mental worries, and  never physical hazards, that unsettled him. He angled around the  truss-work and shrank into as small a space as possible--which wasn't  very small, as he still wore his bulky, clumsy suit.    The clump-clump of feet had died: now there came the sound of the  man-hole aft being raised. A white beam pronged down into the  darkness, felt around and flicked off. Boots clanged on the connecting  ladder; reached the bottom. The light appeared again, lower now, and  came slowly forward. Limned faintly against the reflected light was  the outline of a crouching man's body.    He went to hands and knees and progressed carefully, his flash darting  to left and right. Suddenly, in a certain light, the two who awaited  his coming saw a swarthy, black-stubbled face in profile. He wore no  space-suit! That meant, Friday reflected, that the brigands had  cleared the ship of the gas in some way. It meant that they could get  out of their own suits.    But they could not possibly do so at the moment. They heard the nearby  pirate's breathing, a harsh oath as he stubbed a toe. The negro  tightened his giant arms and held himself ready, his eyes steady on  the black outline which signified his quarry. Then the pirate was  close enough.    It was over in seconds. Rounding the truss, Friday caught the man in  the armored crook of his arm. A startled croak preluded the thump of  two bodies on the hull; there was the tinkle of a falling hand-flash  and a slight squirming which was quickly stopped by a belting punch.    *       *       *       *       * 
don't come back right away, you guys seem to think the ship's haunted!  Haunted! By Betelguese! A sweet bunch of white-livered cowards I've  got for a crew--"    "Ah, lay off!" growled a deep, sullen voice. "I ain't scared, but this  looks fishy to me. Something's wrong down there 'tween the hulls--damn  wrong, I tell you. We only found four skeletons, an' four, ain't the  full crew for a ship like this. There oughta to be a couple more  somewhere. Carse, blast him! he's got nine lives. How do we know he  was one of the four?"    Another spoke up, as Rinker evidently hesitated. "I say we all go down  and investigate together."    "Stow it!" thundered Judd. "They didn't get their space-suits out, did  they? Why, they hadn't a chance to escape--none of 'em. They were  killed, every one, quick! And four's plenty to work this ship. Carse  is dead, see, dead! This was one trick he didn't know--one time he  couldn't worm out. He was clever, all right, but he couldn't quite  stack up against me. I swore I'd get him and I did. He's dead!"    "Judd," said a low, clear voice.    *       *       *       *       *    The Kite whirled around. He stared. The hand-flash he was holding  dropped to the deck with a clang. His hands went limp, and his voice  was suddenly weak and dazed.    "My God--Carse! Hawk Carse!"    "Yes," a whisper answered. "Hawk Carse. And not dead."    It was a scene that might have puzzled a newcomer to the frontiers of  space. Certainly there seemed to be nothing menacing about the slender  figure that stood by the now open man-hole, both arms hanging easily  at his sides; the advantage, on the contrary, appeared to be all with  the men whom he confronted. All but one was big, and each was fully  armed with a brace of ray-guns and knives.    But, though there were four guns to one, they made no attempt to draw. 
 don't remember the figures: they're in the log of my ship."    Carse nodded. "All right. I believe you. And now--there are a few  accounts to be settled."    *       *       *       *       *    During the few minutes the Hawk had questioned Judd, the brigand crew  in the cabin had stood silent, their breath bated, their eyes watching  fascinated. But now they started, and shifted uneasily. They suspected  what was coming. The inexorable, seemingly inhuman adventurer went on  emotionlessly:    "Six of my men were killed on Iapetus, treacherously, without a  chance. Four more were slaughtered by the fungus. That's ten. Back up  to your men, Judd."    Judd knew all too well what that order portended. He could not move.  His cunning eyes protruded with fear as they shifted down and riveted  on the shabby holster that hung on Carse's left side. His breath came  unevenly, in short, ragged gasps through parted lips.    "Back, Judd!"    The stinging, icy force of the voice jolted him back despite his will.  One short retreating step after another he took, until at length he  was standing with his three men against the side wall of the cabin,  the dividing line between it and the engine room. Friday's guns were  still covering the pirates.    "You goin' to shoot us down in cold blood?" one of them asked  hoarsely.    The Hawk surveyed the speaker until the man shivered. Beneath their  coldness, his gray eyes were faintly contemptuous.    "No--I leave that for yellow-streaked hi-jacking rats such as you. I'm  going to give you a chance: more than a chance. Friday," he called.    "Yes, suh?"    "Do you want to come in on this?"    Without the slightest hesitation the negro answered, grinning:    "Yes, suh!"    "I thought you would. Come here alongside me, then sheathe your guns."    Friday did so. He stood in position beside his master, just in front 
something, then switched back again. And when he had done so his face  showed a faint but unmistakable feeling of relief.    This was old stuff to the Hawk, but he could not afford to take  chances. Instantly he rapped:    "Look behind. Friday! Quick!"    The negro jerked his head around. He was too late. He had a glimpse of  a man standing in the man-hole behind--a glimpse of a short steel bar  that flashed to Carse's head in a vicious arc, and again to his own.  He was rocked by pain is blackness came across his vision; and  together, white man and black crumpled to the deck....          CHAPTER VI    _Back to Iapetus_      An indefinite time later Carse awoke to a trip-hammer of pain thudding  through his head. He groaned a little, and tried to turn over in an  effort to ease it. He found he could not. Then his eyes opened and he  blinked up.    He found himself lying on the deck of the control cabin, near the  after wall, and bound hand and foot with tightly strapped rope. Over  him, looking down, was Judd the Kite, hands on his hips, a gloating  smile on his coarse lips, and in his eyes a look of taunting, exultant  triumph. He drew back his foot and kicked the netted Hawk in the ribs.  The trader made no sound; his pale face did not change, except to set  a trifle more rigidly.    "Pretty easy the way my men got you, Carse," said Judd. "Seems to me  you're just a damned fool with a big rep you don't deserve. You're  too careless. You ought to know by now not to leave bound men in reach  of high-powered cable. It cuts as good as an electric knife. Does your  head hurt where you were hit?" Deliberately, still smiling, he rapped  his foot brutally against Carse's head.    The trader said nothing. He glanced around, to get the situation  clearly. Friday, he saw, was in the control cabin too, lying stretched  out and bound as he was, but evidently still unconscious from the 
   Night had settled over the ranch by the time the _Star Devil_ and  Judd's accompanying ship were in the satellite's atmosphere. It was  the rare, deep, moonless night of Iapetus, when the only light came  from the far, cold, distant stars that hung faintly twinkling in the  great void above. Occasionally, the tiny world was lit clearly at  night by the rays of Saturn, reflected from one of the eight other  satellites; and occasionally, too, there was no night, the central sun  of the solar universe sending its distance-weakened shafts of fire to  light one side of the globe while ringed Saturn gilded the other.    But this season was the one of dark, full-bodied nights; and it was  into the hush of their blackness that the _Star Devil_ and her  attendant brigand ship glided.    Below, on the surface of the Satellite, glowed the pin-prick of a  camp-fire. When the ships were some fifteen thousand feet up, Judd's  orders caused long light-rays to shaft out from the _Star Devil_ and  finger the ground. They rested on the ranch house and then passed on  to douse with white the figures of three men standing by the fire.  Through the electelscope the pirate chief saw them wave their arms in  greeting.    Ten minutes later the two ships nestled down close together a hundred  yards or more from the ranch clearing, and Judd said to his mate,  standing next to him:    "We'll have a little celebration to-night. Break out a few cases of  alkite and send three of the boys to the ranch's storeroom after meat  for the cook to barbecue."    "What you goin' to do with them two?" the other asked.    "Carse and the nig? Keep them here in the control cabin; I'll detail a  couple of men to guard them. I'm taking no chances: they must be in  sight every minute. Carse is too damned dangerous." He peered back at  the captives. The trader's eyes were shut; Friday still appeared  unconscious from the brutal blow on his head. "Asleep. Well, they'd  better sleep--while they have eyelid's to close!" Judd said mockingly,  and his mate laughed in appreciation of his wit. 
  Two hours later their eyes were taking in a fantastic, mad scene, one  that in some ways might have occurred in the days when buccaneers  roamed the Spanish Main of Earth.    A little over a hundred yards away, straight before them, was the  corral of the phantis: far behind it encroached the shadowy fringe of  the jungle: to their right, closer to the corral than to the space  ships, was the ranch house, lonely now and silent. But these objects  were only the background for what had grown in front of the corral  wire.    It was the roaring mass of the monster fire that had been lit, a  splash of fierce, leaping flames in the velvety cool of the night.  Black shapes were clustered around it; bottles were raised and  drained; and a frieze of shadows, staggered and jumped and danced  around the ruddy pile of fire. The carousal was in full swing; a  chorus of wild song rose noisily into the night; more cases were  smashed open and more alkite drawn out. The carcases of three animals  taken from the ranch's storehouse sizzled on the barbecue pits, to be  ripped apart and the rich, dripping meat torn at, tooth and claw. Ever  higher pierced the shrieks and oaths, till the calm night was  distorted and crazy.    Other heavier sounds accompanied the bedlam of human noise: deep  snortings and roarings and the scraping of scores of horn-shod feet.  Behind their wired electric fence was clustered the herd of phantis,  staring with their evil, red-shot little eyes at the flames and the  shapes of the hated men. The big bulls were bellowing, bucking their  heads angrily, churning up the soft soil with their strong,  dagger-spurred feet: the welter of noise and the sight of so many men  had wrought them up into a vicious and dangerous state.    Judd the Kite, a bottle in one hand and in the other a huge joint of  meat which he was tearing at with his teeth, suddenly paused with  mouth crammed full and stared over through the flickering light at the  phanti corral. A cruel light gleamed in his eyes: he gulped down the 
 bonds on his legs. The lean fingers worked rapidly. Quickly the knots,  yielded and the rope was unwound. The legs were free. For a moment  Hawk Carse, ever with careful calculation of time, stretched his  cramped muscles, limbering them for action.    A mutter came from the port-lock. He froze. But it was only:    "Look at 'im! This is goin' to be good! Judd gets some damn clever  ideas!"    They were utterly wrapped up in the scene outside, and unconscious of  the low blot that moved with steely purpose behind them.    *       *       *       *       *    The Hawk got to hands and knees; moved forward, the ghost of a shadow.  The two men who were his quarry were sitting close together, hunched a  little forward in their eagerness not to miss a single detail. Their  heads were not a foot apart. Each wore a ray-gun and had another lying  on the deck at his side.    Carse came near to their backs. He paused, imperceptibly tensed,  judged the distance carefully. Then in a sudden, snake-like movement,  he sprang.    A forearm of steel clamped around the back of each guard's head and  jerked it sharply into the other's. There was a quick crack; then,  dazed, only half-conscious, the two men toppled off their seats and  fell to the deck.    "Quiet!" warned an icy whisper. They stared, gaping, then staggered up  to their feet.    A ray-gun that just before had been lying on the deck was leveled  steadily at them, held in the hand of a gray-eyed man whose fine  features were as if graven from stone and on whose wrists were deep  blue lines that showed where ropes had pressed. The guards' faces  whitened as realization came. One of them choked:    "It's him!"    "Yes," whispered the Hawk dryly. He took a few steps backward, eyes  not moving. "Go to that locker," he said to the shorter of the men, 
  Carse's brain moved with the swiftness of light. He could not rush the  group: the odds were too great, and besides, Judd's gun was already  out. Nor could he dive at them with the _Star Devil_ itself, or ray  them from above: that would mean Friday's death too. It would have to  be something else--and in a moment he had it. Carefully he examined  all variations and checked the scheme back: it promised to be the  final move, engendering the final meeting, and there must be no slip.    First, the Hawk slipped shadow-like to the entrance port of the other  space ship, lying a few hundred feet away, shrouded in darkness. He  had to know if anyone were aboard.    Gruffly he called inside:    "Judd! Hey, Judd! You there?"    There was no answer. Again he called, but the gloomy interior's  silence was not broken. Satisfied that it was empty, he doubled back  with noiseless speed, skirted round the _Star Devil_ and arrived like  a wind-carried wraith at the rear wall of the ranch house.    A short leap and his hands closed on the copper drain. The muscles of  his wiry arms flexed, and the lean figure raised himself foot by foot  to the eaves, where a pull and press up brought him over the edge.  Stooping, he padded to the side which faced on the clearing and the  corral.    And then the ray-gun was drawn from its holster.    For seconds the cold gray eyes reckoned the shooting distance and the  angle. The weapon came up and rested at arm's length. The first finger  of the deadly left hand began to squeeze back.    A pencil-thin streak of orange light speared the air!          CHAPTER VIII    _Stampede_      Judd the Kite was enjoying himself hugely. His bestial sense of humor  was tickled. It was very funny, the contortions of the negro in the  orange ray-stream!    "Climb over!" he suggested, amid roars of laughter from the circle of  men. "Climb over, why don't you? I've turned off the current. There's 
 "Run! Run! They're coming! They're coming out!"    They turned, panic-stricken; the torches fell flaring to the ground,  to lie there in pools of flame; the brigands ran for the nearest  shelter, the dark bulk of the ranch house close by. They ran, fear  tingling their spines, in their ears the sound of the maddened  phantis.    *       *       *       *       *    From his vantage point on the roof of the ranch house, the Hawk  confirmed his quick decision that this was the only way.    Rapidly, as was his custom, he had reckoned the problem out minutely  and carefully; had considered and checked every possibility. He had  to shoot the fence, not the brigands. For he couldn't hope to get more  than a couple of them: a pirate toppling over dead would jar the  others into instant action; they would scatter in the darkness,  leaving the odds too great. And leaving, besides, small chance of  wiping out every one of the pirates.    As for Friday, he had to take his chance. There was, this way, a good  chance, if he used his brain. For, to the left, as close as the ranch  house to the corral, were the grave-pits he himself had dug some hours  before, and one was still empty, waiting to be filled. It offered  shelter, a good chance--if he used his brain. He, Carse, would do all  he could to protect him from the stampeding beasts while he ran.    Some of the pirates would be snared by the rush of phantis. Four or  five would probably reach the ranch house. That was what he wanted.    And that was what he got. His fifth shot fired, straight and true from  the ray-gun of the most accurate marksman of space, the Hawk lowered  the weapon and gazed at the scene resulting, a ghost of a smile on his  lips.    He saw the mob of creatures, in a bedlam of noise, sweep under the  fence that had for so long kept them back. Bellowing their hatred, 
*       *       *       *       *    Judd saw the fear gnawing at their vitals. He felt it too. But there  seemed no immediate danger, so, with a ray-gun in each hand, he  summoned a blustering courage and said to the others, harshly:    "Yes, it was that damned Carse! He must have got loose in some way.  But pull yourselves together: we're safe here. He's somewhere  outside."    He reasoned it out for them.    "He couldn't have done that shooting from the _Star Devil_; it's too  far away. And he's not in it now or he'd be using it to try and find  that black of his--if the black's still alive. No, he's not in the  ship, and he's not in this house. He's somewhere outside, and he can't  reach us here while the phantis have the place surrounded. We can  shoot them down from the attic, and they'll soon beat it for the  jungle. When that happens we'll rush to the ships, and before Carse  knows what it's all about we'll be up and away and he'll be marooned.  Then we'll get him later."    His words brought a return of confidence. It was true, the others  thought: the Hawk could not reach them as long as the phantis were  around the house; and when they were driven away, the ships were near  at hand and empty. All they had to do was get to the ships before  Carse. The adventurer certainly was not then in one of the craft, or  he would be wasting no time hunting for Friday--and raying their  stronghold. No doubt he was up a tree somewhere; perhaps gored and  dead.    One of the men snickered, and Judd smiled at the sound. Their  confidence in him was encouraging.    "Get to the windows of the attic," he ordered. "Some of those crazy  brutes are horning at the house. We've got to shoot them and get out  of here, quick!"    *       *       *       *       * 
 "Shoot when I reach five."    Then he swallowed and counted:    "One."    Aside from the tiny flickering of the left eyelid, the Hawk was  graven, motionless, apparently without feeling. Judd, he knew, was  just fairly fast; as for the others--    "Two."    --they were unknown quantities, except for one, the man called Jake.  He had the reputation of possessing a lightning draw; his eyes were  narrowed, his hands steady, and the body crouched, a sure sign of--    "Three."    --a gunman who knew his business, who was fast. His hip holsters were  not really worn on the hips, but in front, very close together; that  meant--    "Four."    --that he would probably draw both guns. So Judd must wait; the other  three, being unknowns, disposed of in the order in which they were  standing; but Jake must be--    "Five!"    --first!    *       *       *       *       *    One second there was nothing; the next, wicked pencils of orange light  were snaking across the attic! And then two guns clanged on the floor,  unfired, and the man called Jake staggered forward, crumpled and fell,  a puzzled look on his face and accurately between his eyes a little  round neat hole that had come as if by magic. Two others, similarly  stricken, toppled down, their fingers still tensed on ray-gun  triggers; the fourth pirate, his heart drilled, went back from the  force of it and crashed into the wall, slithering down slowly into a  limp heap. But Judd the Kite was still on his feet.    His lips were twisted in a snarl; his hands seemed locked. His eyes  met the two cold gray ones across the room--and then his coarse face  contorted, and he croaked:    "Damn you, Carse! Damn you--"    His body spun around and flattened out on the floor with arms and legs  flung wide. A tiny black hole was visible through his shirt. He had 
