  *       *       *       *       *          [Sidenote: Ken Torrance races Poleward to the aid of the submarine  _Peary_, trapped in an icy limbo of avenging sealmen.]    CHAPTER I    _An Empty Room_      The house where the long trail started was one of gray walls, gray  rooms and gray corridors, with carpets that muffled the feet which at  intervals passed along them. It was a house of silence, brooding  within the high fence that shut it and the grounds from a landscape  torpid under the hot sun of summer, and across which occasionally  drifted the lonely, mournful whistle of a train on a nearby railroad.  Inside the house there was always a hush, a heavy quiet--restful to  the brain.    But now a voice was raised, young, angry, impatient, in one of the  gray-walled rooms.    "Yes, I rang for you. I want my bags packed. I'm leaving this  minute!"    The face of the man who had entered showed surprise.    "Leaving, Mr. Torrance? Why?"    "Read this!"    [Illustration: _She was fastened in the mud of the gloomy sea-floor._]    As if, knowing and therefore dreading what he would see, the attendant  took the newspaper held outstretched to him and followed the pointing  finger to a featured column. He scanned it:    Deadline Passed for Missing Submarine    Point Barrow, Aug. 17 (AP): Planes sent out to search for  the missing polar submarine _Peary_ have returned without  clue to the mystery of is disappearance. The close search  that has been conducted through the last two weeks,  involving great risks to the pilots, has been fruitless, and  authorities now hold out small hope for Captain Sallorsen, 
 face pale.    "It's orders, Mr. Torrance. You've been under observation treatment,  and the doctors left strict orders that you must stay."    The young man throbbed with dangerous anger. His hands clenched and  unclenched. He burst out, in a last attempt at reason:    "But don't you see, I've _got_ to get to the _Peary_! It's the last  hope for those men! The position she was last heard from is right  where I--"    "You can't leave, Mr. Torrance! I'm sorry, but I'll have to call a  guard!"    For a minute their eyes held. With an effort, the young man said more  calmly:    "I see. I see. I'm a prisoner. All right, leave me."    The attendant was more than willing. The young man heard the door's  lock click. And then he lowered his head and pressed his hands hard  into his face.    But a second later he was looking up again, at the single wide window  which gave out on the lonely landscape over which sometimes came  drifting the distant cry of a train's whistle.    *       *       *       *       *    Two months before, Kenneth Torrance had returned to the whaling  submarine _Narwhal_, of which he was first torpooner, with a confused  story of men who were half-seals that lived in mounds under the Arctic  ice,[1] who had captured him and--he found--had also captured the  second torpooner, Chanley Beddoes. In breaking free from their  mound-prison, Beddoes had killed one of the sealmen and had been  himself slain minutes later by a killer whale, one of the fierce  scavengers of the sea which the sealmen trapped for food even as the  _Narwhal_ sought them for oil. Ken Torrance alone came back.    [Footnote 1: See the February, 1932, issue of Astounding Stories.]    Over their doubts, he had stuck to his story. Later, he had repeated  it to officials of the Alaska Whaling Company, who worked the  submarine and several surface ships. They in return had sent him to a 
    CHAPTER II    _The Crash_      At a few minutes before eight o'clock, Air Mail Pilot Steve Chapman  was enjoying a quiet cigarette while waiting for the mechanics to warm  up the five hundred horses of his mail plane satisfactorily. Halfway  through, he heard, from behind, a quick patter of feet, and, turning,  he observed a figure clad in flannel trousers and sweater. The  cigarette dropped right out of his mouth as he cried:    "Ken! Ken Torrance!"    "Thank God you're here!" said Kenneth Torrance. "I gambled on it.  Steve, I've got to borrow your own personal plane."    "What?" gasped Steve Chapman. "What--what--?"    "Listen, Steve. I haven't been with the whaling company lately; been  resting, down here--secluded. Didn't know that submarine, the _Peary_,  was missing. I just learned. And I know damned well what's happened to  it. I've got to get to it, quick is I can, and I've got to have a  plane."    Steve Chapman said rather faintly:    "But--where was the _Peary_ when they last heard from her?"    "Some twelve hundred miles from the Pole."    "And you want to get there in a plane? From here?"    "Must!"    "Boy, you stand about one chance in twenty!"    "Have to take it. Time's precious, Steve. I've got to stop in at the  Alaska Whaling Company's outpost at Point Christensen, then right on  up. I can't even begin unless I have a plane. You've got to help me on  my one chance of bringing the _Peary's_ men out alive! You'll probably  never see the plane again, Steve, but--"    "To hell with the plane, if you come through with yourself and those  men," said the pilot. "All right, kid, I don't get it all, but I'm  playing with you. You're taking my own ship."    He led Ken to a hangar wherein stood a trim five-passenger amphibian;  and very soon that amphibian was roaring out her deep-throated song of  power on the line, itching for the air, and Steve Chapman was shouting  a few last words up to the muffled figure in the enclosed control 
 there; the _Narwhal_ was being overhauled in a shipyard at San  Francisco, and it wasn't the season for surface whalers. They knew  that he, Ken, had been put in a sanitarium; all of them had heard his  wild story about sealmen. But he concocted a plausible yarn to account  for his arrival, and they had fed him and given him a berth in the  bunkhouse for the night.    For the night! Ken Torrance grinned as he recalled the scene. In the  middle of the night he had risen, quickly awakened four of the  sleeping men, and with his gun forced them to take a torpoon from the  outpost's storehouse and put it inside the amphibian's passenger  compartment.    It was robbery, and of course they'd thought him insane, but they  didn't dare cross him. He had told them cheerfully he was going after  the _Peary_, and that if they wanted the torpoon back they were to  direct the searching planes to keep their eyes on the place where the  submarine was last heard from....    *       *       *       *       *    Ken came back to the present abruptly as the plane lurched. The wind  was getting nasty. At least he did not have much farther to go; an  hour's flying time would take him to his goal, where he must descend  into the water to continue his search. His search! Had it been, he  wondered, a useless one from the start? Had the submarine's crew been  killed before he'd even read of her disappearance? If the sealmen got  them, would they destroy them immediately?    "I doubt it," Ken muttered to himself. "They'd be kept prisoners in  one of those mounds, like I was. That is, if they haven't killed any  of the creatures. It hangs on that!"    An hour's time, he had reckoned; but it was more than an hour. For  soon the world was blotted out by a howling dervish of wind and driven  snow that time and time again snatched the amphibian from Ken's 
water.    Gone in an instant was the shriek and fury of the storm and in its  place the calm, slow-heaving silence of underwater. The plane was  shattered in a dozen places, but the torpoon had easily stood it.    Ken turned to action. He switched on the torpoon's dashboard lights  and twin bow-beams, and saw that the shell was wedged in the fuselage.  The plane was apparently entirely under the surface, and her interior  filled with water.    Holding the propeller in neutral, he revved up the powerful electric  motor. Then he bit the propeller in, slowly. The torpoon nudged back  for inches. Then, throwing the gear into forward, Ken gave her full  speed. The torpoon leaped ahead, crunched through the weakened corner  ahead and was free.    It was a world of drab tones that she came into. Down below was  impenetrable blackness, shading softly overhead into blue-gray which  was mottled by lighter areas from breaks in the floes above. All was  calm. There was no sign of life save for an occasional vague shadow  that, melting swiftly away, might have been a fish or seaweed. Placid  always, would be this shrouded sea of mystery, no matter what furious  tempest raged above over the flat leagues of ice and water.    But the seeming peacefulness was but a mask for danger. Kenneth  Torrance's face was set in sober lines as he sped the slim torpoon  northward, her bow lights shafting long white fingers before her. For  now there was only one path--and that lay ahead. He could not turn  back. Storm and water had destroyed the plane that could take him back  to land. He could not possibly reach any outpost of civilization in  the torpoon, for her cruising radius was only twenty hours. He had  planned to land the amphibian on the ice above the spot where the  _Peary_ had disappeared, then find a break in the ice and slide down  below in the torpoon on his quest--to return to the plane if it proved  fruitless. But now there was no retreat. It was succeed, or die.    And with that realization a more dreadful thought flashed into his  
 like restless antennae, now stabbing to the right to dissolve a  formless shadow, now to the left to throw into blinding white relief a  school of half-transparent fish which scurried with frantic wrigglings  of tails from the glare, now slanting up to bathe the cold glassy face  of an inverted ice-hill, now down to dig two white holes in the deeper  gloom.    Ken continued this routine for hours. Steadily and low the electric  motor droned in the ears of the watchful pilot, and the stubby  propeller's blades flashed round in a blur of speed between the  slightly slanted rudders. Somewhere, miles away, a splintered  amphibian plane was slipping down to her last landing, and above,  perhaps, the white hell of storm which had brought her low still  bowled over the trackless wastes; but here were only shadows and  shifting gloom, straining the alert eyes to soreness and tensing the  watcher's brain with alarms that, one after another, were only false.    Until at last he found her.    Immediately he shut off all his lights. He no longer needed them. Far  in the distance, and below, wavered a faint yellow glow. It was no  fish; it could mean only one thing--the lights of a submarine.    And lights meant life! There would be none burning in a deserted  submarine. His heart beat fast and his tight, sober lips widened in a  quick grin. He had found the _Peary_! And found her with some life  still aboard her! He was in time!    So Ken rejoiced while he slid the torpoon down to a level just a few  feet above the silty sea bottom, reducing her to quarter-speed. There  was an urge inside him to switch on his bow-beams, reach them out  toward the submarine's hull to tell all within that help was at last  at hand; he wanted to send the torpoon ahead at full speed. But  caution restrained him to a more deliberate course. He was in the  realm of the sealmen, and he did not wish to attract the attention of  any. So he advanced like a furtive shadow slinking along the dark  sea-bottom, deep in the covering gloom.  
vengeance. Vengeance! An eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth--the old  law peculiar to man! Chanley Beddoes had slain one of them; if only  the _Peary's_ crew had not killed more! If only that, there might be  hope!    First he must get inside the submarine. Warily, like a stalking cat,  Ken Torrance inched the torpoon toward the great shining ship. At  least he was in time. Within her he could see figures, most of them  stretched out on the decks of her different compartments, but one of  whom occasionally moved--slowly. He understood that. For weeks now the  _Peary_ had lain captive, and her air had passed beyond the aid of  rectifiers. Tortured, those survivors inside were, constantly  struggling for life, with vitality ever sinking lower. Some might  already be dead. But at least he could try to save the rest.    He approached her from one side of the rear, for in the rear  compartment were her two torpoon port-locks. The one on his side was  empty, its outer door open. The torpoon it had held had been sent out,  probably for help, and had not returned. It provided a means of  entrance for him.    At perhaps a hundred feet from the port-lock, Ken halted again. His  slim craft was almost indistinguishable in the murk: he felt  reasonably safe from discovery. For minutes he watched the swimming  sealmen, waiting for the best chance to dart in.    *       *       *       *       *    It was then, while studying the full length of the submarine more  closely, that he saw that one compartment of her four was filled with  water. Her steel-caped bow had been stove in. That, he conjectured,  had been the original accident which had brought her down. It was not  a fatal accident in itself, for there were three other compartments,  all separated by watertight bulkheads, and the flooded one could be  repaired by men in sea-suits--but then the sealmen had come and roped  her down where she lay. Some of the creatures, he saw, were actually 
 but inside that effect was lost. There were the usual appurtenances: a  maze of pipes, wheels, machinery, all silent now, and cold; here were  the two port-locks for torpoons; the emergency steering controls; the  small staterooms of the _Peary's_ officers. Looking forward, still  striving for complete clear-headedness and normality, Ken could see  the two intact forward compartments, silent and apparently lifeless,  with dim lamps burning. They ended with the watertight bulkhead which  stood between them and the flooded bow compartment.    Ken at last found words, but even his short query cost a sickening  effort.    "Where's--the commander?" he asked.    *       *       *       *       *    A man turned from where he had been leaning against a nearby wheel  control. He was stripped to the waist. His tall body was stooped, and  the skin of his ruggedly cut face drawn and parchment-like. His face  had once been dignified and authoritative, but now it was that of a  man who nears death after a long, bitter fight for life. The smile  which he gave to Ken was painful--a mockery.    "I am," he said faintly. "Sallorsen. Just wait, please. A minute. I  worked port-lock. Breath's gone...."    He sucked shallowly for air and let his smile go. And standing there,  beside him, gazing at the worn frame, Ken felt strength come back. He  had just entered; this man and the others had been here for weeks!    "I'm Sallorsen," the captain went on at last. All his words were  clipped off, to cost minimum effort. "Glad you got through. Afraid  you're come to prison, though."    "No!" Ken said emphatically. He spoke to the captain, but what he said  was also for all the others grouped around him. "No, Captain! I'm  Kenneth Torrance. Once torpooner with Alaska Whaling Company. They  thought me crazy--crazy--'cause I told about sealmen. Put me in  sanitarium. I knew they had you--when--heard you were missing." He  pointed at the brown-skinned creatures that clustered close around the 
feared one thing that would render his whole value useless. He asked  quickly:    "What have you done?"    "Those seals," Sallorsen's labored voice continued "--they've killed  eight of us. Now they're killing all."    "But have you killed any of them?" Breathless, Ken waited for the  answer be feared.    "Yes. Two."    The men were all staring at Ken, so he had to hide the awful dejection  which clamped his heart. He only said:    "That's what I feared. It changes everything. No use trying to reason  with them now." He fell silent. "Well," he said at last, trying to  appear more cheerful, "tell me what happened. Maybe there's something  you've overlooked."    "Yes," Sallorsen whispered. He started to come forward to the  torpooner, but stumbled and would have fallen had not Ken caught him  in time. He put one of the captain's arms around his shoulder, and one  of his own around the man's waist.    "Thanks," Sallorsen said wryly. "Walk forward. Show you what  happened."    *       *       *       *       *    There were men in the second compartment, and they still fought to  live. From the narrow seamen's berths that lined the walls came the  sound of breathing even more torturous than that of the men in the  rear. In the single bulb's dim light Ken could see their shapes  stretched motionlessly out, panting and panting. Occasionally hands  reached up to claw at straining necks, as if to try and rid throats of  strangling grasps. Two figures had won free from the long struggle.  They lay silent and still, the outline of their dead bodies showing  through the sheets pulled over them.    Slowly Sallorsen led Ken through this compartment and into the next,  which was bare of men. Here were the ship's main controls--her helm,  her central multitude of dials, levers and wheels, her televisiscreen  and old-fashioned emergency periscope. A metal labyrinth it was, all  long silent and inactive. Again the weird contrast struck Ken, for 
 Ripped. Mangled. By spears the things carry. Dead like that."    "Yes," murmured Ken, "that would do it...."    "I quick tried to get away," gasped Sallorsen. "Full-speed--back and  forth. No good. Ropes held. Couldn't break. All our power couldn't! So  then--then I acted foolishly. Damn foolish. But we were all a little  crazy. A nightmare, you know. Couldn't believe our eyes--those seals  outside, mocking us. So I called for volunteers. Four men. Put 'em in  sea-suits, gave 'em shears and grappling prongs. They went out.    "They went out laughing--saying they'd soon have us free! Oh, God!" It  seemed he could not go on, but he forced the words out deliberately.  "Killed without a chance! Ripped apart like the others! No chance!  Suicide!"    Ken felt the agony in the man, and was silent for a while before  quietly asking:    "Did they kill any more of the sealmen?"    "One. Just one. That made two of them--six of us. What the hell are  the rest of them waiting for?" Sallorsen cried. "They killed eight in  all! To our two! That's enough for them, isn't it?"    "I'm afraid not," said Ken Torrance. "Well, what then?"    "Sat down and thought. Carefully. Hit on a plan. Took one of our two  torpoons. Lashed on it steel plates, ground to sharp cutting edges.  Spent days at it. Thought torpoon could go out and cut the ropes.  Haines volunteered and we shot him and torpoon out."    "They got the torpoon?" Ken asked.    Sallorsen's arm raised in a pointing gesture. "Look."    *       *       *       *       *    Some fifty feet away from the _Peary_, on the side opposite to the one  Ken Torrance had approached, a dimly discernible object lay in the  mud. In miniature, it resembled the submarine: a cigar-shaped steel  shell, held down to the sea-bottom by ropes bound over it. Cutting  edges of steel had been fastened along its length.   
hell! There's no chance left! Just this poison that used to be air,  and those things outside, watching, watching, waiting--waiting for us  to leave--waiting to get us all! Waiting...."    "Something's up!" said Ken Torrance suddenly. "They've got tired of  waiting!"          CHAPTER V    _The Last Assault_      Sallorsen turned his head and followed the torpooner's intent, amazed  gaze.    Ken said:    "There's proof of their intelligence! I've been watching--didn't  realize at first. Look, here it comes!"    Several sealmen, while Sallorsen had been talking, had come dropping  down from the main mass of the horde, and had grouped around the  abandoned torpoon which lay some feet ahead of the submarine's bow.  Expertly they had loosened the seaweed-ropes which bound it to the  sea-floor, then slid back, watching alertly, as if expecting the  torpoon to speed away of its own accord. Its batteries, of course, had  worn out weeks before, so the steel shell did net budge. The sealmen  came down close to it again, and lifted it.    They lifted it easily with their prehensile flipper-arms, and with  maneuvering of delicate sureness guided it through the gash in the  _Peary's_ bow. Inside, they hesitated with it, midway between deck and  ceiling of the flooded compartment. They poised for perhaps a full  minute, judging the distance, while the two men stared; and then  quickly their powerful tail flippers lashed out and the torpoon jumped  ahead. It sped straight through the water, to crash its tough nose of  steel squarely into the quarsteel pane of the watertight door, then  rebounded, and fell to the deck.    "My God!" gasped Sallorsen. But Ken wasted no words then. He pressed  closer to the quarsteel and examined it minutely. The substance showed  no visible effect, but the action of the sealmen destroyed whatever  hope he had felt.    The sealmen had swerved aside at the last minute; and now, picking up  the torpoon again and guiding it back to the other end of the  compartment, they hurled it once more with a resounding crash into the  quarsteel pane. 
 Turning, Ken saw that the torpoon had cracked through the weakened  quarsteel and tumbled in a mad cascade of water to the deck of the  abandoned second compartment. In dread silence, he, with Sallorsen and  those of the men who had strength and curiosity enough to come  forward, watched the compartment rapidly fill--watched until they saw  the water pressed high against the door. And then horror swept over  Ken Torrance.    *       *       *       *       *    Water! There was a trickle of water down the quarsteel he was leaning  against! A fault along the hinge of the door--either its construction,  or because it had not been closed properly.    Ken pointed it out to the captain.    "Look!" he said. "A leak already--just from the pressure! This door  won't last more than a couple of minutes when they start on it--"    Sallorsen stared stupidly. As for the rest; Ken might not have spoken.  They were as if in a trance, watching dumbly, with lungs automatically  gasping for air.    One of the seal-creatures eeled through the shattered quarsteel of the  first door and swam slowly around the newly flooded compartment. At  once it was joined by five other lithe, sleek shapes which, with  placid, liquid eyes, inspected the compartment minutely. They came in  a group right up to the next door that barred their way and, with no  visible emotion, stared through the quarsteel pane at the humans who  stared at them. And then they gracefully turned and slid to the  battered torpoon.    "Back!" Ken shouted, "You men!" He shook them, shoved them roughly  back toward the fourth, and last, compartment. Weakly, like automatons  they shuffled into it. The torpooner said bruskly to Sallorsen:    "Carry those tins of food back. Hurry! Is there anything stored in  here we'll need? Sallorsen! Captain! Is there anything--"    The captain looked at him dully; then, understanding, a cackle came  from his throat. "Don't need anything. This is the end. Last 
And the sea-suits. He had struggled for them and had saved them, but  what use could he put them to? Go out leading a desperate final sally  for the hole in the ice above? Death in minutes!    No hope. Nothing. Not even a fighting chance. These seal-creatures,  strange seed of the Arctic ice, had trapped the _Peary_ all too well.  On the roll of mysteriously missing ships would her name go down; and  he, Ken Torrance, would be considered a lunatic who had sought  suicide, and found it....    *       *       *       *       *    Of the twenty-one survivors of the _Peary's_ officers and crew, only a  dozen had the will to watch the inexorable advance of the sealmen. The  rest lay in various attitudes on the deck of the rear compartment,  showing no sign of life save torturous, shallow pantings for air and,  occasionally, spasmodic clutchings at their throats and chests, as  they tried to fight off the deadly, invisible foe that was slowly  strangling them.    Ken Torrance, Sallorsen, the scientist, Lawson, and a few others were  pressed together at the last watertight door, peering through the  quarsteel at the sea-creatures' systematic assault on the door leading  into the third compartment. A straight, hard smash at it; another  final splintering smash--and again the torpoon pushed through in the  van of a cascade of icy, greenish water, which quickly claimed the  control compartment for the attackers behind. The creatures were  growing bolder. More and more of them had entered the submarine, and  soon each open compartment was filled from deck to ceiling with the  slowly turning, graceful brown bodies, inspecting minutely the  countless wheels and levers and gauges, and inspecting also, in  turns, the pale, worn faces that stared with dull eyes at them  through the sole remaining door.    There was no further retreat, now. Behind was only water and the swarm  that passed to and fro through it. Water and sealmen--ahead, above, to  the sides, behind--everywhere. Cooped in their transparent cell, the 
 waiting in the sea-gloom for their moment of triumph, when the soft  bodies inside the _Peary_ would be theirs to rip and mangle....    A dragging sound brought Ken's eyes wearily up and to the side. One of  the crew who had been lying on the deck was dragging his body  painfully toward a row of lockers at one side of the compartment. The  man's eyes were feverishly intent on the lockers.    Ken watched his progress dully, without thinking, as inch by inch he  forced himself through the other bodies sprawled in his way. He saw  him reach the lockers, and for a minute, gasping, lie there. He saw a  clawing arm stretch almost up to the catch on one locker, while the  man whimpered like a child at his lack of quick success.    _Crash!_ The grinding blow of the torpoon hitting the quarsteel  clanged out from behind. But Ken's mind was all on the reaching man's  strange actions. He saw the fingers at last succeed in touching the  catch. The door of the locker opened outward, and eagerly the man  reached inside and pulled. With a thump, a row of heavy objects strung  together rolled out onto the deck--and Ken Torrance sprang suddenly to  the man's side:    "What are you doing?" he cried.    The man looked up sullenly. He mumbled:    "Damn fish--won't get me. I'll blow us all to hell, first!"    At that the connection struck Ken.    "Then that's nitromite!" he shouted. "That's the idea--the nitromite!"    And stooping down, he wrenched the rope of small black boxes which  contained the explosive from the man who had worked so painfully to  get them.    "I'll do the blowing, boy!" he said. "Don't worry; I'll do it  complete!"    *       *       *       *       *    Ken, holding the rope of explosives, crossed the deck and pulled  Sallorsen and Lawson around. Their worn faces, with lifeless,  bloodshot eyes, met his own strong features, and he said forcefully: 
again, and they began dragging the suits to the men who had not even  the strength to rise, shoving inert limbs into place, switching on the  air-units inside the helmets and, gasping themselves, fastening the  helmets down. Theirs was a conflict as cruel, as hard and brutal as  men smashing at each other with fists, and they then proved their  right to the shining roll of honor, wherever and whatever that roll  may be. They fought on past pain, past sickness, past poisoning, that  man of action and men of the laboratory.    And outside that foul transparent pit the tempo quickened also. The  sledging blows at the last door came quicker. All around the captive  _Peary_ the sleek brown bodies stirred uneasily. For weeks there had  been but little activity inside the submarine; now, all at once, three  of the figures that were men whipped the others into action, rousing  those lying dying on the deck--working, working. Observing this, the  lithe seal bodies moved with new nervous, restless strokes, to and  fro, never pausing--passing up and down in a milling stream the length  of the craft, clustering closest outside the walls of the fourth  compartment, where they pressed as close as they could, their wide  brown eyes already on the haggard forms that worked inside, their  smooth bodies patterned by the constantly shifting shadows of their  fellows above and behind.    So they watched and waited, while in the third compartment the  battered torpoon was slung at the last door, and drawn back, and slung  again--waited for the final moment, the crisis of their month-long  siege beneath the floes of the silent Arctic sea!    *       *       *       *       *    Kenneth Torrance worked by himself.    He saw that Sallorsen and Lawson had answered his call; man after man  was clad in his suit and sucking in the incomparably fresher, though  artificial, air of the units. As he had hoped, that air was  revitalizing the worn-out bodies rapidly, giving them new strength and 
 *       *       *       *       *    "Yes!" cried Lawson, the scientist. "But the explosion--it might  shatter the ship!"    "No matter; I expect it to!" answered Ken. "Then you can leave through  a crack instead of a port-lock."    "Yes--but you!" objected the captain. "Get on a suit!"    "No; I'm jumping into my torpoon in the other port-lock. I've got the  food in it. Now, Sallorsen, this is your job. I'll be in my torpoon,  but I won't be able to let myself out the port. You open it, right  after the explosion. Understand?"    "Yes," replied Sallorsen, and Lawson nodded.    "All right," gasped Ken Torrance. "Empty the chamber." As the captain  did so, Ken opened the lid of the biscuit can and adjusted the timing  device on the exposed unit in the clothing-wrapped bundle. Then he  replaced it, ticking, in the can and thrust the can bodily into the  emptied chamber of the port-lock. He closed the inner door of the  chamber, and said to the men by him:    "Close your face-plates!"    And Ken pushed the release button: and then he was running to the  other port-lock and to his torpoon, and harnessing himself in.    His brain teemed with the possibilities of the situation as he lay  stretched out in the torpoon, waiting. How much would the submarine be  smashed? Would the charge of nitromite, besides killing the sealmen,  kill everyone inside the _Peary_? For that matter, would it affect the  sealmen at all? How much could the creatures stand? And would the  firing mechanism work? And then would he himself be able to get out;  or would the lock in which the torpoon lay be damaged by the explosion  and trap him there?    Seconds, only seconds, to wait, small fractions of time--but they were  more important than the days and the weeks that the _Peary_ had lain,  a lashed-down captive, under the Arctic ice; for in these seconds was  
A ghostly gray haze of light filtered downward through the water from  the hole. Ken counted twelve figures making their way to it. As he  wondered about the rest of the crew, he saw three bulging, swaying  shapes suddenly emerge from the split in the top of the _Peary_, and  begin an easy rise toward the ice ceiling ninety feet above. There was  no apparent danger, and they went up quite slowly, with occasional  brief pauses to avoid the risk of the bends. Clasped together, the  group of three were, and when they were halfway to the glassy ceiling  of the ice, three more left the rent in the submarine and followed  likewise. Twelve men were at the top; six others were swimming up;  three more were yet to leave the submarine--and after they had  abandoned her, he, Ken, would follow with the torpoon and the food it  contained.    So he thought, watching from where he lay, down below, and there was  in him a great weariness after the triumph so bitterly fought for had  been achieved. He rested through minutes of quiet and relaxation,  watching what he had brought about; but only minutes--for suddenly  without warning all security was gone.    From out the murky shadows to the left a sleek shape came flashing  with great speed, to jerk Ken Torrance's eyes around and to widen them  with quick alarm.    A sealman! A sealman alive, and moving--and vengeful! A sealman which  the explosion of nitromite had not reached!    Doubtless the lone creature was surprised upon seeing all its fellows  motionless, drifting like corpses upward, and the men of the _Peary_  escaping. With graceful, beautiful speed, a liquid streak, it flashed  into the scene, eeling up and around and down, trying to understand  what extraordinary thing had happened. But finally it slowed down and  hovered some thirty feet directly above the dark hull of the _Peary_.    The men rising toward the ice had seen the sealman at the same time  Ken Torrance had, and at once increased their efforts, fearing  immediate attack. Quickly the two groups shot to the top where the  other twelve were, and began a desperate fumbling progress over toward 
 the seven shells left in the nitro-gun's magazine had to count; and  the first of them gave a good example.    Ken turned down in time to see the death of the man first attacked.  His suit was ripped clean across, his air of life went up in bubbles,  and the water came in. The seal-creature lunged at its falling victim  a last time, and as it did so its smooth brown body crossed Ken's  sights. The torpooner fired, and saw his shell strike home, for the  body shuddered, convulsed, and the sealman, internally torn, went  sinking in a dark cloud after the human it had slain.    That sight gave pause to the other two creatures that had arrived, and  gave Ken Torrance a good second chance. Motor throbbing, the torpoon  turned like a thing alive. Its snout and gun-sights swerving straight  toward the next target. But, when just on the point of pressing the  trigger, Ken's torpoon was struck a terrific blow and tumbled over and  over. The whole external scene blurred to him, and only after a moment  was he able to bring the torpoon back to an even keel.    He saw what had happened. While he had been sighting on the second  seal-creature, the third had attacked the torpoon from the rear by  striking it with all the strength of its heavy, muscular body. But it  did not follow up its attack. For it had crashed in to the whirling  propeller, and now it was hanging well back, its head horribly gashed  by the steel blades.    For a moment the three combatants hung still, both sealmen staring at  the torpoon as if in wonder that it could strike both with its bow and  stern, and Ken Torrance rapidly glancing over the situation. The  remaining two of the last group of three men, he saw, had reached the  top, and the foremost of the _Peary's_ crew were within several feet  of the new hole in the ice. In a very short time all would be out and  safe. Until then he had to hold off the two sealmen.    Two? There were no longer only two, but five--ten--a dozen--and more. 
the farther side.    Another respite. Another man through the hole. And but two  nitro-shells left!    *       *       *       *       *    The deadly circle, like wolves around a lone trapper who crouches  close to his dying fire, pressed in a little; and by their ominous  quietness, by the sight of their eyes all turned in on him, their  concerted inching closer, Ken sensed the nearness of the charge that  would finish him. All this in deep silence, there in the gloomy  quarter-light. He could not yell and brandish his fists at them as the  trapper by the fire might have done to win a few extra minutes. The  only cards he had to play were two shells--and one was needed now!    He fired it with deliberate, sure aim, and grunted as he saw its  victim convulse and die, with dark blood streaming. Again the swarm  hesitated.    Ken risked a glance above. Only three men left, he saw; and one was  pulled through the hole as he watched. Below, in one place, several  seal-creatures surged upward.    "Get back, damn you!" he cursed harshly. "All right--take it! That's  the last!"    And the last shell hissed out from the gun even as the last man,  above, was pulled through up into the air and safety.    Ken felt that he had given half his life with that final shell.  Completely surrounded by a hundred or more of the sealmen, he could  not possibly hope to maneuver the torpoon up to the hole in the ice  and leave it, without being overwhelmed. He had held off the swarm  long enough for the others to escape, but for himself it was the end.    So he thought, and wondered just when that end would come. Soon, he  knew. It would not take them long to overcome their fear when they saw  that he no longer reached out and struck them down in sudden bloody  death. Now it was their turn. 
 and with every foot the watching bodies became visibly bolder. There  was no light inside the torpoon--inner light would decrease the  visibility outside--but Ken knew her controls as does the musician his  instrument. Slowly the propeller whirled over, the torpoon dropped,  slowly the diffused light from the hole above diminished--and slowly  the eager wall of sealmen followed and crept in.    Twenty-five feet down; and then, after a long time, thirty-five feet,  and forty. Seventy feet up, in all, to the hole in the ice....    Ken wanted seventy-five feet, but he could not have it. For the wall  of sleek bodies broke. One or two of the creatures surged forward;  other followed; they were coming!    The slim torpoon leaped under the unleashed power of her  motors--forward.    *       *       *       *       *    For one awful moment Ken thought he was finished. The vision of the  hole was obscured by a twisting, whirling maelstrom of bodies, and the  torpoon quivered and shook like a living thing in agony under glancing  blows.    But then came a patch of light, a pathway of light, leading straight  up at a forty-five-degree angle to the hole in the ice above.    Sealmen and torpoon had leaped forward at the same moment. Doubtless  the creatures had not expected the shell to move so suddenly and  decisively ahead, so that when it did, those in the van swerved to  escape head-on contact.    The torpoon gained speed all too slowly for her pilot. It naturally  took time to gain full forward speed from a standing start. But she  moved, and she moved fast, and after her poured the full tide of  sealmen, now that they saw their prey running in retreat.    From somewhere ahead appeared a rope, noosed to catch the fleeing  prey. It slipped off the side. Another touched the bow, but it too was  thrown off. The torpoon's forward momentum was now great; she was  sweeping up at the full speed Ken had gone back to be able to attain. 
