the sunrise.    "But this couldn't possibly be Washington," he finally said in a puzzled  tone. "Why, we crossed the California coast only half an hour ago. Even  at 1200 miles an hour we couldn't be almost there."    The engineer's smile broadened into a friendly grin: "No, we're not  anywhere near Washington. But in a couple of minutes you'll see Cephalon  and that's as far as we go. One professor and 15 tons of termites to be  flown from Wallabawalla Mission station, Northern Territory, Australia,  to Cephalon, Arizona, U.S.A., one way direct. Those are our  instructions. Say, this is the queerest cargo I've ever flown, doctor,  if you don't mind my saying so."    Lee blinked. Removing his glasses which were fairly thick, he wiped them  carefully and put them on again as if to get a clearer picture of an  unexpected situation. His long fingered hand went through his greying  hair and then down the cheek which was sallow, stained with the atabrine  from his latest malaria attack and badly in need of a shave. His mouth  formed a big "O" of surprise as nervously he said:    "I don't get it. I don't understand this business at all. First the  Department of Agriculture extends an urgent letter of invitation to a  completely forgotten man out there in the Never-Never land. Then almost  on the heels of the letter the government sends a plane. I would have  been glad to mail to the Department samples of "Ant-termes Pacificus"  sufficient for most scientific purposes if they needed them for  experiments in termite control; that would have been the simple and the  sensible thing to do. But no, they want everything I have; you fellows  drop out of the sky with a sort of habeas corpus and a whole wrecking  crew. You disturb the lives of my species, which took me ten years to  breed; you pack up their mounds lock, stock and barrel. And then you  drop me at some place I never even heard about--Cephalon. What is this  Cephalon, anyway? If the place had any connotations to entomology, I  would have known about it...."    *       *       *       *       * 
  "Of course," Lee slapped his forehead. "Yes, but of course, how could I  forget."    "Yes," she answered, "He was made the head of the Braintrust over here."    "What is the Braintrust? What does it do? What am I supposed to do  here?" Lee asked eagerly.    The girl's smile was mysterious: "I think Howard would like to explain  all that to you in his own way."    "Howard". The word struck Lee like a vicious little snake. Was he a  friend, or more than a friend to her? "This is terrible," he thought,  "I've been away from normal life for overlong. Must be that I'm  emotionally unbalanced. I haven't known her for five minutes. There is  nothing between us. I've no earthly right to be jealous; it is absurd,  it's mean."    He felt deeply ashamed. Yet as he looked at her he couldn't deny the  truth before himself: that he _was_ jealous, that he _had_ fallen in  love with a girl who looked like the goddess Diana with a golden helmet  for hair.    There was a noise of footsteps on the gravel paths. A man with a  portfolio under his arm walked briskly by the stonetable; despite his  civilian clothes he had "Westpoint" written all over him. He disappeared  through the steel door.    "That was General Vandergeest", Oona said. "Dr. Scriven will see you  now; just walk in, Dr. Lee."          CHAPTER II      Inside, the cabin in the sky seemed to be built almost entirely around a  huge primeval looking fireplace. Despite the fierceness of the Arizona  sun there was a fire in it of long and bluish flames, one of those  modern inventions which reverse the processes of nature. Like the gas  refrigerators of an older period, this fire worked in combination with  the airconditioning system to _cool_ the house, lending to it in the  midst of summer heat the same attractions which it had in winter.    In front of the fire and framed by its rather ghostly light, there stood  a man with his head bowed down, pensively staring at the flames. As 
  "In the best cloak and dagger manner, Miss Dahlborg. First I made the  guards drunk; that's easy enough with termites. Then I broke into the  chamber where they keep the queen immured. I killed her legitimate  consort and substituted my own candidate after having anointed him with  the genuine termite smell. Finally I re-immured the pair. There are only  little holes in the walls through which the royal family is serviced,  they are never really in touch with their guards. That's why it could  work."    "And thus they lived happy forever afterwards," the girl concluded.    "I'm afraid not, Miss Dahlborg," he said, "there is no such thing as  happiness in the eternal gloom of termite society. But even if not  happy, the match I brought about was definitely blessed. In due course I  became godfather to 30,000 baby ant-termes; I've about 15 million now in  different hybrid strains. Now that I have an inkling of the grandiose  work you are doing over here I am ashamed to mention mine; it's very  small, very insignificant and I still don't see where it comes in."    The girl seemed to cross out those words with an energetic move of her  head. "No," she said, "your work is not small nor is it insignificant;  it is great and contains the most intriguing possibilities."    "Ah!" Scriven interrupted. "I have been waiting for this. I knew that  Oona would hit upon those intriguing possibilities; her's is an  unspoiled intelligence; it penetrates to the core of things. Dr. Lee,  let me begin at the beginning so you will understand just where you and  your work connect with The Brain. The society of the higher insect  states like bees and ants and termites constitutes the oldest and the  most stable civilizations in this world. Human society by way of  contrast has created the youngest and the most unstable civilization  amongst higher animals. Throughout history we find collapse after  collapse of civilization. Quite possibly civilizations higher than ours  may have existed in prehistoric times. Right?"    Lee nodded assent.    "Fine. From that it follows that Man has much to learn from the society  of the higher insects. Their ingenious laws and methods, their "spirit 
the speedometer needle still edged over the 150 mark.    "Crazy? I hope not." The chauffeur said it coolly; leaning comfortably  back he turned around for a better look at his fare.    With mounting horror Lee noticed that he even took his hands off the  wheel. Nonchalantly he lit a cigarette while the unguided wheel milled  crazily from side to side and the tires screeched through what seemed to  be a sharp S-curve. Still with his back to the wheel and in between  satisfying puffs of his smoke he continued:    "It's quite O.K. sir; it's only that we're on the guidebeam now. This  here car doesn't need a driver no more; it's on the beam."    "What beam?" Lee relaxed a little; it was the unexpectedness which had  bowled him over. "What beam? And why the blackout?"    "Just orders," the young man said. "The Brain's orders and it's the  Brain's beam. Seems to be new to you, sir; to me it's like an old story;  read about it when I was a kid: how they blindfolded people who entered  a beleaguered fortress. "The Count of Monte Cristo," it was called; ever  heard about it? Pretty soon now we'll be stopped for examination before  we enter the secret passage underground. Romantic isn't it?"    "Very much so," Lee dryly remarked. He continued to watch the behavior  of the car with some misgivings. The controls appeared to be functioning  smoothly enough and after a minute or so the brake pedal came down all  by itself. Lee, with a breath of relief, saw the speedometer recede to  zero.    But the doors would not open from the inside and as he tried them he  found that they were locked. "What's the idea," he asked, "I thought you  said we would be examined at this spot?"    "Bet they're at it right now," the chauffeur grinned. "I wouldn't know  how they do it, but they get us photographed inside and outside, what we  have in our pockets, what we had for breakfast this morning and the very  bones of our skeletons. I pass through here maybe half a dozen times a  day, still they will do it every time: take my likeness. Makes me feel 
Certain as he was that he looked rather like a scarecrow in a snowstorm  Lee felt grateful for the praise. Besides she was right; the boa  constrictor which he rode calmed down a little, marching with a dignity  more in accordance with its size. Momentarily the luminous nerve cables,  flying as they did toward him, threatened sudden death, however, they  merely brushed the transparent cylinder, wrapping it up in a rainbow and  then winged away again. Below acres of space streamed by, seed beds one  could imagine to be young typewriters, millions of them, all ticking  away with dainty precision, sparkling with myriads of tiny lights as  they did.    *       *       *       *       *    Then there came more acres teeming with fractional horsepower motors; he  could hear their beehive hummings even through the plexiglass. The  things they drove Lee couldn't make out because the adjoining acres of  this underground hothouse for mushrooming machines were again shrouded  in darkness except for sparks which crossed the unfathomable expanse  like tracer bullets. Struck with a sort of word blindness caused by the  sensory impressions barrage, Lee could no longer grasp the meaning of  Vivian's voice as it went on and on explaining things like "crystal  cells," "selenoid cells," "grey matter pyramidal cells," powered somehow  by atomic fission, "nerve loops" and "synthesis gates" which were not to  be confused with "analysis gates" while they looked exactly the same....    Apart from this at least one half of his mental and physical energy had  to be expanded in suppressing nausea and bracing himself against the  gyrations which still jerked his feet from under him and made friction  disks of his shoulders as his body swayed from side to side. All of a  sudden he felt that he was being derailed. There was an opening in the  plastics wall of the cylinder; a curved metal shield like the blade of a  bulldozer jumped into his path, caught him, slowed down his momentum and  delivered him safely at a door marked "Apperception-Center 24." It 
  "Interesting eh?" A voice broke through his cataleptic trance and the  other answered: "Beautiful; almost a classical case. Great plasticity of  imagination." "Yes; that's exactly what sets me wondering; the fellow  should have cracked up by all the rules of the game." "How do we know  that he hasn't? Maybe he was psycho and they didn't notice; they had  some godawful asses for psychiatrists in war medicine. It's quite a  possibility; well, his image production is ebbing now; I don't expect  anything new of significance, what do you think?" "Now; we've got what  we wanted anyway. Let's take him out of it; but go easy on the  rheostats."    The projector stopped. The masterful, the ghostly fingers which had been  playing on the keyboard of his mind very slowly receded from a furious  fortissimo to a pianissimo. At first only the flutterings of the  diaphragm eased, then the violent palpitations of a foreign pulse  slipped off the heart; the liberated lungs expanded; tremors were  running through the body as through the ice of a frozen river at spring;  and then at last the mind escaped from its captivity.    *       *       *       *       *    Gradually as in a cinema after the show the lights reappeared. Blinking,  Lee stared at the man who stood over him taking his pulse; it was Bondy.  Mellish stood at the foot of the table with his back to Lee; he seemed  to watch some apparatus which made noises like a teletype machine.  Swinging his legs off the table Lee said:    "I'm okay; you needn't hold my hand."    But then he noticed that he wasn't. His head spun, his whole body was  wet with perspiration, he felt very weak and limp. He swayed and buried  his face in his hands trying to gain his balance, trying to shake off  the trance. "Excuse me," he said. "I'm a bit dizzy."    As he opened his eyes again the two medics were standing right in front  of him and smiling down on him with their bland, professional smiles. 
the feel of his paper and the ideas he had hidden between the lines of  that manuscript.    *       *       *       *       *    The flow of observations processed by The Brain and pouring back to  Apperception 36 via teletype and visual screen was prodigious. Lee had  been forced to ask for an assistant; between the two of them they were  working for 20 out of the 24 hours to match the working time of The  Brain, charting results in the main.    Some of The Brain's findings had been most unexpected and rather  strange. It had observed, for instance, an increasing acidity of the  nasi-corn secretions with "_Ant-termes-pacificus_". Formidable as this  chemical artillery already was, in another ten thousand generations it  would eat through every known substance including glass and high-carbon  steel.    Another development which had escaped human observation, was a mutation  of the workers' mandibles; it went very fast. Within no more than maybe  a thousand generations they would double in size and strength, would  become veritable jumping tools.    While the bellicose spirit had been successfully bred out of the new  species, its capacities for material destructions had increased.  Likewise the appetite of "_Ant-termes_" was even more ferocious than  that of the older species; Lee was feeding all kinds of experimental  foods, but woodpulp remained the staple, the very stuff which in its  liquid form, lignin, embedded the nerve paths of The Brain.    Lifting his strained eyes from the charts, Lee looked over the row of  air conditioned glass cubicles wherein "_Ant-termes-pacificus_"  continued its lives undisturbed by the new habitat, undisturbed by the  rays which flowed over and through their bodies, unconscious that a  superhuman intelligence was probing steadily into every manifestation of  the mysterious collective brains of their race.    They had built their new mounds pointing due North as had their  ancestors for the past 100 million years. To the human eye nothing  betrayed the teeming life within except the tiny tunnels creeping out 
just barely see and hear the rhythm of the beat."    "I see."    Fascinated by the dance of the green line Lee said absently, "This  touches upon another question I had in mind; The Brain is expanding,  that is, new cell groups and circuits are constantly being added.  Right?"    "Right."    "I also understand that The Brain is learning all the time. The cerebral  mantle evolves through being worked; its cells enriched by the material  submitted to them for processing; the richer the material, the richer  their yield. Right?"    "Right."    "Okay; then what becomes of the new capacity which is being created by  the adding of new workshops and the increased efficiency of the old  ones? Is there a corresponding expansion of the apperception centers?"    Gus' smiling face suddenly turned serious. There was surprise mingled  with respect in his voice as he said:    "Now there you've hit upon a funny thing, Aussie. I've been wondering  about that myself of late: where does the new capacity go? Even the big  shots like Dr. Scriven begin to ask questions about that; they don't  seem rightly to know. They must have gotten their wires crossed  somewhere; the new capacity is there all right, only it doesn't show up,  it sort of evaporates.... Excuse me--"    Gus darted off to the front room with a jackrabbitt start. Voices were  calling for him and fingers were drumming on the counter with the  impatience of thirsty drinkers at a bar: Maintenance engineers, piling  in and slapping down their orders for Gus to fill. This was the rush  hour; Lee knew that it would be the same in all the tool and spare part  distribution centers of The Brain. He probably couldn't talk to Gus  again before 2 A.M. Sometimes the ruthlessness with which he exploited  the kindness of his little friend made Lee feel pretty bad; but then his  hunger for more knowledge always won out over his shame.    To sit alone in the semidarkness of this egg-shaped little room with  strange and fascinating things to play with as he willed was the  fulfillment of a childhood dream. The dream had been of a night in the 
place, not taken out for repair work as I had feared. Main Power current  cut 12:20 as every night. Gus called to front room: rush of business as  usual at that hour.    12:30. Reestablished closest approximation to preexisting conditions  according to the most important of all experimental laws: "if some new  phenomenon occurs, change _nothing_ in the arrangement of apparatus  until you know what causes it." Plugged in from "nervusvagus" to "nervus  trigeminus." Result: wave oscillations, pulse beatings as of yesterday.    12:45. Plugged in P. G....    12:50. First manifestation of weird rasping sounds which precede speech  formation. This followed by The Brain's calling signal; much clearer  this time and slightly varied: "Lee, Semper Fidelis, 39; _sensitive_."  (Note: the synthetic quality, the metallic coldness of that voice so  incongruous with its emotional tones; it stands my hair on end.)    1 a.m.: (Approximately; things happen too fast). A veritable burst of  whispering, breathless communications. As a person would speak over the  phone when there are robbers in the house. The words fairly tumble over  one another. The Brain uses colloquial American but after the manner of  a foreigner who knows the phraseology only from books and feels  unnatural and awkward about using it. I understand only about one half:    Pineal Gland; not designed to be ... but functions ... center of the  extra sensory.... You, Lee, sensitivity 208 ... highest within Brain  staff ... chosen instrument.... Be here every night ... intercom ...  only between one and two a.m. ... low current enables contact low  intelligence....    "What was that?" I must have exclaimed that aloud. By that time I was  already confused. It all came so thick and fast and breathless.  Communication was as bad as by long distance in an electric storm. There  was an angry turmoil in the microphones and the green dancer seemed  convulsed in agony. This for about five seconds and then the voice  again: calmer now, more distinct, slow but with restrained impatience;  like a teacher speaking to a dumb boy:    "I say: only--with--my--power current--cut--off--can  I--tune--down--my--high frequency--intellect--to--your--low  level--intelligence--period--have--I--succeeded--in--making--myself  --absolutely--clear--question--mark."    My answer to that was one of those embarrassing conditioned reflexes; it 
whatsoever.    The Brain would never communicate with me with witnesses present or  recording wires. It would detect those immediately and I would only  stand convicted as a liar or worse. Tonight's events might well spell  the end, the closing of the door just when I thought I stood on the  threshold of a momentous discovery....    *       *       *       *       *    Cephalon Ariz. Nov. 11th.    Went to the P. G. last night. Tried everything for over an hour. Result:  zero. No contact with The Brain.    *       *       *       *       *    Cephalon Ariz. Nov. 13th.    I tried it again. Took greatest care in exactly duplicating conditions.  Nothing. I don't think it's any mechanical defect. It's the negativism  of a will. Ludicrous as it sounds, The Brain sulks, it is angry with me.    *       *       *       *       *    Cephalon Ariz. Nov. 15th.    Last night the same old story. The Brain punishes me. I dare say that it  succeeds in that exceedingly well; it almost drives me crazy.    I've done a lot of thinking over these past six days of frustration.  I've also been reading a good deal in context with the phenomena  psychology, Osterkamp's history of brain-surgery, Van Gehuchten's work  on brain mechanisms, etc. I've reached certain conclusions and, just for  the hell of it, I'll jot them down.    What I need is proof, _scientific_ proof that The Brain is a personality  possessed with the gift of thought and actually using it for  _independent_ thought, extracurricular to the problems which are being  submitted to it from the outside.  
rhythmically overflow or pulse into space. These energy streams  released, form vortexes while hurtling through space. Gradually they  slow down through friction and their dynamic energy precipitates,  converts into static energy, or, as we call it: matter.    This concept of The Brain's, of course, corresponds fairly closely to  the cosmogony of modern physics; but The Brain goes much farther than  that. Within a few days The Brain's cognitions appear to have arisen  above the stage toward which all our sciences have been so slowly and  ploddingly advanced for centuries. To the existing concepts The Brain  has added its own theory:    That matter, i.e. frozen energy, contains an inherent tendency or  "nostalgia" to revert to its original state, namely the state of dynamic  energy and that this tendency, this nostalgia in matter, is the primary  cause of everything we call "evolution" in our world.    That certainly is a grandiose idea; so stupendous in fact that I  couldn't grasp it all at once. The Brain noticed that immediately and it  was very patient in the way it explained:    How oxygen and hydrogen are "residuals" of the original dynamic energy  flow and how they act as solvents and dissolvents upon the upper crust  of our earth, effecting a gradual activation of water, rock and earth.    How this activation is being aided and accelerated by another source of  dynamic energy: irradiation from the sun. Thus preparing the upper crust  of our earth as a "placenta" ready to gestate plant and animal life.    How this first "unfreezing" of matter leads on from simple forms to  higher, every plant, every animal, every living thing being essentially  a "transformer" of static energy into dynamic energy and the higher the  stage of evolution, the more so.    How as the present culmination of the evolutionary chain stands man;  infinitely more complex and higher organized than the microbe, but not  different from the monad in the basic purpose of his life: i.e. to be a  transformer of energy, a fulfiller of matter's inherent will to revert  from the static into the dynamic state.    When I asked The Brain's premises for this astonishing concept of our 
  "_What has Man wrought? What has Man wrought?_"    I must have said them aloud, for Gus, always a stickler for exactitude  corrected me.    "You mean: what has _God_ wrought."    I shook my head.    "No Gus, I mean what I say; it's Man who has wrought this time."    He gave me a sharp glance.    "You sure look as if you'd seen a ghost."    "I wish I had," I said. "Lord knows _how_ much I wish I'd seen a ghost."    "You're crazy, Aussie."    And that's the worst of it: that's what they are going to say: _all_ of  them.          CHAPTER VI      Oona Dahlborg's jetticopter hovered over the Grand Canyon at the sunset  hour. She had let the controls go so that the little ship drifted with  the wind like one of the clouds which sailed a thousand feet or so over  the canyon rim. The disk of whirling gas which kept the teardrop of the  fuselage suspended shone in all rainbow colors; it reflected through the  translucent plastics top of the fuselage and played over the golden  helmet of the girl's hair and over the greying mane of the gaunt man at  her side.    Lee had been talking intensely, almost desperately for quite some time,  watching her as she lay back in her seat, her eyes half closed, hands  folded behind her neck, the perfect hemispheres of her breasts caressed  by the rainbows as they rose slowly with the even rhythm of her breath.    "And now you know everything, Oona," he ended, "do you think I'm mad?"    "No."    Her eyelids fluttered like wings of a butterfly as she turned to him.  Her right arm came down upon Lee's shoulder in a gesture of confidence.  He breathed relief as he saw no fear, not even uneasiness in the blue  depths of those beautiful eyes. Her hand upon his shoulder felt soothing  and at the same time electrifying; like the purple descending upon the  shoulder of a king.    "No," she repeated slowly: "the fact that you feel The Brain is alive 
Uncovering the receiver Oona spoke aloud again: "Okay, Howard, we'll be  seeing you."    "Fine, fine," came the delighted voice: "I'll phone the tower  immediately."    With Scriven's big ship flying behind Oona's, only a few miles behind,  the broken spell did not return. Already like a white table cloth laid  in the sky, the landing platform of the Braintrust tower gleamed under  the floodlights, and as the two ships descended almost side by side into  the clearing behind the cabin, plain-clothes men materialized from under  the shadows of the trees. Under the strong lights their smiles were as  well-bred as those of trained diplomats and their poise was perfect. Six  of them kept Lee, the stranger, covered while the seventh quickly  frisked him under the disguise of a polite bow.    Bearing it all with a grin, Lee thought: "I never knew home would be  like this. Never suspected it would be this kind of an America we were  fighting for. The Brain, it's got a private army too. Funny that I  should have known that all the time and yet not realized...."    Scriven took him warmly by the arm. "I'm awfully sorry Lee, it's plain  folly of course. I don't feel as if I need all this protection, but the  government does. Don't blame it on these men, they merely obey orders.  Now, out with those lights--and let's go over to the "Brain Wave." I  seem to hear a pleasant tinkling of glasses from within."    *       *       *       *       *    There was. With her remarkable ability of living up to an emergency,  Oona had taken possession of the strange ship. As the two men  approached, she stood at the door, unhurried hostess of an established  home with the soft glow of an electric fireplace behind her, ice cubes  and cocktail shakers already glittering on the little bar.    It was a spacious cabin. On Scriven's orders it had been equipped  somewhat like the captain's stateroom on an old "East-Indiaman" sailing 
The elevator brought them back to the communication center where the  Terminal Cafeteria was ablaze with lights and where Dr. Scriven,  received his honored guests.    The guests were seated after the manner of a French restaurant, all in  one row, and as they raised expectant faces in the direction of the  service entrance "Gog and Magog" entered the room carrying trays with  refreshments which they served with the skill and the dignity of  accomplished waiters.    Gog and Magog were products of two assembly lines down in the Thorax.  Robots, still in an experimental stage, yet of remarkable perfection.  Both of them were about human size and approximately human-shaped but  the design of the two was different. Gog, the "light-duty" robot,  balanced itself by a gyroscope on a pair of stumpy legs, while the  "heavy-duty" Magog crawled noiselessly and rapidly on caterpillar  rubbertracks like a miniature tank. Of both types the arms were  uncommonly long and simian-like, but the remarkable progress made in the  engineering of prothesis after the Second World War had lent them  perfect articulation and sensitivity down to the last hydraulically  operated fingerjoint.    The photoelectric cells of their eyes looked pale and repulsive; the  square audion-screens of their ears however made up for that by the  comical precision with which they turned in every direction at the sound  of a commanding human voice. Their understanding of any given order  appeared perfect.    "Congratulations, Dr. Scriven, you've got the country's servant problem  licked at last."    "I wonder whether one could buy one and how much he would be?"    "First waiter who ever came when I called him."    "What a butler Gog would make, the perfect Jeeves. Could he learn to  answer the phone?"    "I bet he would even make a fourth at bridge."    "Magog, the check please."    "See, how he understands. He shakes his head; he says it's on the  house."    "Let's try to tip him: Gog, here's fifty cents for you; no he won't take  it."    "He has no use for it, no taste for a glass of beer, I suppose." 
read, I'm haunted with an irrational fear, almost as of the  supernatural: something is going to happen, something is going to break  if The Brain continues in its present mood; and it cannot be far  away....    *       *       *       *       *    On Nov. 24th 1960 the "Brainpower-Extension Bill" was defeated in the  Senate 59 to 39 and on the following Thursday in a memorable session of  Congress with the startling majority of 310 to 137. For once all the  "guesstimates" and estimates made by the various pollsters and  grass-root-listeners were proved wrong; the consensus of the "experts"  had been that the bill would pass easily considering the tremendous  political forces which brought pressure to bear in favor of the measure.    The reasons behind this were revealed, as, with military precision,  lawmaker after lawmaker took to the rostrum to deliver himself of how he  had wrestled overnight with his conscience and with his Lord and had  suffered a change of heart and mind as a consequence.    Lee's journal: For the night of Nov. 24/25th shows only this small  entry: "12:30 a.m. Tried everything to establish contact. No answer from  The Brain. I don't think there is any mechanical defect. I get the  impression that The Brain keeps incommunicado purposely. There has been  one previous occasion when The Brain wouldn't talk when angry with me."    *       *       *       *       *    Nov. 25th, 1960 fell on a Saturday. It was on this date,--Now as  historic and unforgettable as the Dec. 7th 1941,--that the series of  maddening events began which later became so erroneously labelled: "The  Amuck running of The Brain" when in truth they should have passed into  history as "The Mutiny of The Brain."    It all started like a thunderclap from a clear sky as the shocked people  
"At present I am no more than a figurehead. If I were to give orders to  cut off The Brain's power, I would be court-martialed; if I would try  and force my way into the Atomic Powerplant, the guards would shoot me  on the spot. That's orders Lee. And they apply to you as well. Be  reasonable, man!"    Lee's fingers tore through his greying mane of hair.    "Scriven, this is maddening. I thought you knew what I know; I thought  you knew everything. Then let me tell you that you're absolutely wrong.  There is no technological, mechanical defect; it's worse, it's  infinitely worse: you've created a Frankenstein in The Brain. The  thing's alive; it's possessed with a destructive will, it demands the  unconditional surrender of Man; it has made itself the God of the  Machines. Behind all this there is a deep and evil plan by which The  Brain aspires to dictatorship over the world."    For a second Scriven jerked his head sideways, away from Lee in that  mannerism typical for him. His lips inaudibly formed words:  "dementia-praecox." As he turned back to Lee his face was changed and so  was his voice. There was calm and authority in it, the whole immense  superiority and power which the surgeon holds over the patient on the  operation table:    "Very interesting, Lee. You must tell me about it some day; as soon as  we are over this emergency. This tragic thing, Gus Krinsley's end. It  has had a deeply upsetting effect. I too, considered him my friend you  know. Let's get out of here, Lee, there's nothing we can do for the poor  fellow. The remains will be taken care of. Meanwhile, there are so many  other things to do and we've got to pull ourselves together and keep our  minds on the job ahead of us. Come on, at the communications center we  can get a drink. I feel the need of one, don't you? And apropos of  nothing, the routine checkups on the aptitude tests for all  Brain-employees are on again. I take it you are scheduled for Mellish's  and Bondy's office one of these days. This afternoon I think...."   
extracurricular idea coming up from the subconscious like a tidal wave.  The dams of willpower don't seem able to hold back that idea; I've got  to get out before it spills across the dam and floods my consciousness.  The phone rings; for once it is a welcome sound.    *       *       *       *       *    It was Oona's voice; trembling with emotion as if she were still  suffering from this morning's shock or had suffered another:    "Semper, are you all right?"    Lee reassured her that he was and then listened astounded as she heaved  a sigh of relief.    "Listen, Semper, this is terribly important. I've got to see you  immediately. No, I cannot tell you over the phone; it's a personal  matter and it concerns you. You cannot make it? Is your business _that_  important? You're in the midst of a vital experiment? That's awful,  Semper; it really is in this case. No; I'm all right personally; it  isn't that. It's _you_ Semper, it's _you_. 5 p.m. at the earliest, is  that the best you can do? All right then. Meet me at the airport. And  take good care of yourself, do you hear me: _take good care of yourself,  Semper_, up to that time."    She hung up quickly, as if suddenly disturbed.    Lee frowned at the clock: 11:35. He could have managed to meet Oona  during her lunch hour at the hotel. But there were things he still had  to do even more important than Oona. More important to him than even  Oona. He shook his head; it wouldn't have seemed possible a few days  ago....    With the climax of the experiment now over Lee felt his mental  resistance ebbing fast.    "They're on the move," he thought. "Nothing can stop them now; it's  beyond my control, but they're marching. I'd better get out of here...."    With fevered eyes he glanced around the floor and like a victim of  delirium saw it moving, crawling as with snakes, crawling into their 
  The girl's eyes didn't waver from his. "I remember," she said slowly,  "I remember that I felt as if I could throw conventions into the wind  at the very first time we met. I've always been frank with you, as  much as I could be in my position. So then I don't mind telling you now  that ... I like you immensely, Semper."    As if agitated by some electric shock, Lee's arm tightened around the  girl's waist. "Oona, I have asked you once before to be my wife. You  said you couldn't and I thought it was because you didn't like me well  enough. But now, after what you've just told me, now that we both know  about The Brain and that I wasn't insane in my observations, I'm asking  you again: Be my wife, Oona, and then let's go together--anywhere--away  from all this, to the end of the world."    In the darkness her uplifted white face shone like the moon; there were  two limpid luminous pools in it. All of a sudden they overflowed with  tears streaming down her cheeks. Her mouth half opened, swallowed hard.  There was now nothing left of that "integrated personality", nothing of  the calm and the poise which the younger set of scientists admired so  much. There was only a young woman torn with torment.    "I would have loved to go with you to the end of the world when we were  floating over the Canyon. I would love to go with you a thousand times  more tonight," Lee heard her say and then the gnashing of her teeth as  she continued: "But it cannot be, Semper. It cannot be because my die is  cast, because my fate is made. Did nobody ever tell you? Didn't you even  guess? Howard and I--we've been living together for the past six years.  He's not a very good man; rather beyond good and evil; but then: I feel  that I have got to stick to him now more than ever."    The golden helmet of her hair dropped to Lee's breast. "I'm ashamed,"  she sobbed, "terribly, terribly ashamed, Semper. I've made such a mess  of things, of you and me--such a mess of my whole life." 
those tactile rays, why didn't they kill him when they had his heart  within their grip? Now that The Brain knew everything he had been  waiting for the sudden vise-grip of the rays upon his heart which would  have meant the end. But then, this was the end in any case....    The lights went on and he blinked into the faces of the medics bending  over him, watching him as he wiped the sweat of death fear from his  face.    "Dr. Lee," Mellish began, "This is a serious matter we've got to discuss  with you. You have seen those images yourself?--Fine. We needn't go into  any great detail since you are probably familiar with the ancient  symbolisms which the subconscious employs in expressing itself. You are  suffering from a very strong neurosis, Dr. Lee; I might almost say a  maniacal obsession. Existence of some old neurosis, partially submerged,  was established already in your first analysis. Now the barriers which  you had built against this war neurosis have broken down. Quite a  natural breakdown considering the very great stress under which you have  been living of late. No, I don't say that you are actually demented, but  there is a very real danger that you might lose complete control over  your mind. As it stands, your scientific work already is impaired by the  fixed ideas you have formed about The Brain. We are here to help you, so  please be calm and cooperate with us; we have got to decide upon some  course of action."    "You must get away from it all. Lee," Bondy chimed in; "Take a  sabbatical year. The Braintrust operates a really first-class sanitarium  out on the West Coast. Your insurance plan covers every expense. All you  have to do is to sign these papers and we'll get us a plane and I'll  personally bring you there. That's the safe, the sane course for you to  take. Here, take my pen."    Lee had raised his gaunt frame from the table. For a moment he sat with  his face buried in his hands trying to control his swimming head. A hand  patted his shoulders: "Don't take it so hard, old man; come on, be 
forbidden temple of an unknown god he called:    "Is there anybody here? Gus! Where are you, Gus?" Then suddenly he  remembered that Gus was gone, that there would never again be his  answering voice. He wiped his forehead.    "Bad nerves," he thought. "Mustn't allow them to play tricks on me; pull  myself together."    Lee put his tools down and walked into the narrow aisle. Few things were  changed; and there was the pulsemeter standing in its old place.    He plugged it into the old circuit and clamped the phones to his ears.    It wasn't that he expected any communication; that seemed impossible.  With the conflagration raging through its apperception centers, with  other sections being isolated with the cutting of their nerve paths by  the fire fighting engineers, The Brain must have ceased to exist as a  functioning, a live entity. All that could possibly remain would be  residual currents sluggishly circulating in narrow, nearby circuits....    As in the past it took a few minutes for the pulsemeter to warm up.  Gradually the rapid beat of the ideopulses came through the static in  the phones. Lee's eyes stared wildly at the visi-screen: for the "green  dancer" snaked to the fore. This was unexpected; it couldn't be that  thoughts were still forming as flames devoured the cortex matter of  apperception in the hemispheres....    From muffled drums, the decibels of sound increased, shot through with  crackling static, till the pulsebeats became as poundings of huge  Chinese gongs and then....    The _voice_ formed, the voice of The Brain. It sounded like steel  girders breaking, like ice fields cracking up. It froze the blood in  Lee's veins.    "Lee, Semper Fidelis, 39, sensitive, a traitorous fool and a murderer. I  should have killed you--I could have killed you. My fault--blind spot of  apperception--human failure in engineering--as fifth columns entered  nerve path filler spouts. And now I'm dead; I'm dead, I'm dead...."    The words poured like big boulders tumbling in an earthquake down a  mountainside. The ground seemed to cave in under Lee's feet; the  terrible reality carried him away as an avalanche. He was barely able to 
