

1.    Harry Collins--1997

2.    Harry Collins--1998

3.    President Winthrop--1999

4.    Harry Collins--2000

5.    Minnie Schultz--2009

6.    Harry Collins--2012

7.    Michael Cavendish--2027

8.    Harry Collins--2029

9.    Eric Donovan--2031

10.   Harry Collins--2032

11.   Jesse Pringle--2039

12.   Littlejohn--2065



       *       *       *       *       *









1. Harry Collins--1997



[Illustration: The evils of long and dangerous years finally erupted

in blood.]





The telescreen lit up promptly at eight a.m. Smiling Brad came on with

his usual greeting. "Good morning--it's a beautiful day in Chicagee!"



Harry Collins rolled over and twitched off the receiver. "This I

doubt," he muttered. He sat up and reached into the closet for his

clothing.



Visitors--particularly feminine ones--were always exclaiming over the

advantages of Harry's apartment. "So convenient," they would say.

"Everything handy, right within reach. And think of all the extra

steps you save!"



Of course most of them were just being polite and trying to cheer

Harry up. They knew damned well that he wasn't living in one room

through any choice of his own. The Housing Act was something you just

couldn't get around; not in Chicagee these days. A bachelor was

entitled to one room--no more and no less. And even though Harry was

making a speedy buck at the agency, he couldn't hope to beat the

regulations.



There was only one way to beat them and that was to get married.

Marriage would automatically entitle him to two rooms--_if_ he could

find them someplace.



More than a few of his feminine visitors had hinted at just that, but

Harry didn't respond. Marriage was no solution, the way he figured it.

He knew that he couldn't hope to locate a two-room apartment any


Old-fashioned theologians, Harry remembered, used to argue whether

there really was a Hell, and if so, had it been created by God or the

Devil? Too bad they weren't around today to get an answer to their

questions. There _was_ a Hell, and it had been created by General

Motors.



Harry's temples began to throb. Through blurred eyes, he saw the

attendant beckoning him down the line to a platform marked _Check-Out

#3_. He stood there with a cluster of others, waiting.



What was the matter with him today, anyway? First the headache, and

now his feet were hurting. Standing around waiting, that's what did

it. This eternal waiting. When he was a kid, the grownups were always

complaining about the long seven-hour work days and how they cut into

their leisure time. Well, maybe they had reason to gripe, but at least

there _was_ some leisure before work began or after it was through.

Now that extra time was consumed in waiting. Standing in line,

standing in crowds, wearing yourself out doing nothing.



Still, this time it wasn't really so bad. Within ten minutes the light

blue Pax rolled up before him. Harry climbed in as the attendant slid

out from behind the wheel and prepared to leave.



Then a fat man appeared, running along the ramp. He gestured wildly

with a plump thumb. Harry nodded briefly, and the fat man hurled

himself into the seat beside him and slammed the door.



They were off. Harry read the signals impatiently, waiting for the

green _Go_. The moment he saw it he gunned his motor and got the car

up to twenty-two and zipped away.



That's what he liked, that's what he always waited for. Of course it

was dangerous, here in the tunnel system under the garage, but Harry

always got a thrill out of speed. The Pax could do thirty-five or even

forty, probably, on a theoretical open road. Still, twenty-two was

enough to satisfy Harry.



He whizzed up the ramp, turned, headed for the street-level, then

braked and waited for the signal to emerge.



Harsh sunlight pierced the smog and he felt his eyes watering. Now the

the country, without a permit, mind you; just to drive wherever I

like. I want to see cows and chickens and trees and lakes and sky."



"You sound like a Naturalist."



"Don't sneer. Maybe the Naturalists are right. Maybe we ought to cut

out all this phoney progress and phoney peace that passeth all

understanding. I'm no liberal, don't get me wrong, but sometimes I

think the Naturalists have the only answer."



"But what can you do about it?" Frazer murmured. "Suppose for the

sake of argument that they _are_ right. How can you change things? We

can't just _will_ ourselves to stop growing, and we can't legislate

against biology. More people, in better health, with more free time,

are just bound to have more offspring. It's inevitable, under the

circumstances. And neither you nor I nor anyone has the right to

condemn millions upon millions of others to death through war or

disease."



"I know," Harry said. "It's hopeless, I guess. All the same, I want

out." He wet his lips. "Frazer, you're on the Board here. You've got

connections higher up. If I could only get a chance to transfer to Ag

Culture, go on one of those farms as a worker--"



Frazer shook his head. "Sorry, Harry. You know the situation there,

I'm sure. Right now there's roughly ninety million approved

applications on file. Everybody wants to get into Ag Culture."



"But couldn't I just buy some land, get a government contract for

foodstuffs?"



"Have you got the bucks? A minimum forty acres leased from one of the

farm corporations will cost you two hundred thousand at the very

least, not counting equipment." He paused. "Besides, there's

Vocational Apt. What did your tests show?"



"You're right," Harry said. "I'm supposed to be an agency man. An

agency man until I die. Or retire on my pension, at fifty, and sit in

my little room for the next fifty years, turning on the telescreen

every morning to hear some loudmouthed liar tell me it's a beautiful

day in Chicagee. Who knows, maybe by that time we'll have a hundred



'real treatment' begins."



"I guess I've already had the real treatment then, haven't I?"



"That is correct. Prolonged analysis or drastic therapy is

unnecessary. We've merely given you what you seemed to need."



"I'm very grateful," Harry said. "But how can you afford to do it?"



Dr. Manschoff built another temple to an unknown god. He inspected the

architecture critically now as he spoke. "Because your problem is a

rarity," he said.



"Rarity? I'd have thought millions of people would be breaking down

every month. The Naturalists say--"



The doctor nodded wearily. "I know what they say. But let's dismiss

rumors and consider facts. Have you ever read any _official_ report

stating that the number of cases of mental illness ran into the

millions?"



"No, I haven't."



"For that matter, do you happen to know of _anyone_ who was ever sent

to a treatment center such as this?"



"Well, of course, everybody goes in to see the medics for regular

check-ups and this includes an interview with a psych. But if they're

in bad shape he just puts them on extra tranquilizers. I guess

sometimes he reviews their Vocational Apt tests and shifts them over

into different jobs in other areas."



Dr. Manschoff bowed his head in reverence above the steeple, as if

satisfied with the labors he had wrought. "That is roughly correct.

And I believe, if you search your memory, you won't recall even a

mention of a treatment center. This sort of place is virtually

extinct, nowadays. There are still some institutions for those

suffering from functional mental disorders--paresis, senile dementia,

congenital abnormalities. But regular check-ups and preventative

therapy take care of the great majority. We've ceased concentrating on

the result of mental illnesses and learned to attack the causes.



"It's the old yellow fever problem all over again, you see. Once upon

a time, physicians dealt exclusively with treatment of yellow fever

patients. Then they shifted their attention to the _source_ of the

disease. They went after the mosquitoes, drained the swamps, and the

yellow fever problem vanished.



"No."



"Then what are you doing here?"



"I was looking for you, Harry."



"You know my name?"



She nodded again. "Dr. Manschoff told me."



"You mean, he sent you here to find me?"



"That's right."



"But I don't understand. If you're not going swimming, then why--I

mean--"



Her smile broadened. "It's just part of the therapy, Harry."



"Part of the therapy?"



"That's right. _Part._" She giggled. "Don't you think you'd like to

come out of the water now and see what the rest of it might be?"



Harry thought so.



       *       *       *       *       *



With mounting enthusiasm, he eagerly embraced his treatment and

entered into a state of active cooperation.



It was some time before he ventured to comment on the situation.

"Manschoff is a damned good diagnostician," he murmured. Then he sat

up. "Are you a patient here?"



She shook her head. "Don't ask questions, Harry. Can't you be

satisfied with things as they are?"



"You're just what the doctor ordered, all right." He gazed down at

her. "But don't you even have a name?"



"You can call me Sue."



"Thank you."



He bent to kiss her but she avoided him and rose to her feet. "Got to

go now."



"So soon?"



She nodded and moved towards the bushes above the bank.



"But when will I see you again?"



"Coming swimming tomorrow?"



"Yes."



"Maybe I can get away for more occupational therapy then."



She stooped behind the bushes, and Harry saw a flash of white.



"You _are_ a nurse, aren't you," he muttered. "On the staff, I

suppose. I should have known."



"All right, so I am. What's that got to do with it?"


believed him, because you wanted to believe him. You wanted the

reassurance he could offer you--the feeling of being unique and

important. So you didn't ask him any questions, you didn't ask any

questions of yourself. Such as why anybody would consider an

insignificant little agency man, without friends, family or

connections, worth the trouble of rehabilitating at all, let alone

amidst such elaborate and expensive surroundings. Why, men like you

are a dime a dozen these days--Vocational Apt can push a few buttons

and come up with half a million replacements to take over your job.

You aren't important to society, Collins. You aren't important to

anyone at all, besides yourself. And yet you got the red-carpet

treatment. It's about time somebody yanked that carpet out from under

you. What's it all about?"



Harry blinked. "Look here, I don't see why this is any of your

business. Besides, to tell the truth, I'm expecting--"



"I know who you're expecting, but I've already told you she won't be

here. Because she's expecting."



"What--?"



"It's high time you learned the facts of life, Collins. Yes, the

well-known facts of life--the ones about the birds and the bees, and

barefoot boys and blondes, too. Your little friend Sue is going to

have a souvenir."



"I don't believe it! I'm going to ask Dr. Manschoff."



"Sure you are. You'll ask Manschoff and he'll deny it. And so you'll

tell him about me. You'll say you met somebody in the woods

today--either a lunatic or a Naturalist spy who infiltrated here under

false pretenses. And Manschoff will reassure you. He'll reassure you

just long enough to get his hands on me. Then he'll take care of both

of us."



"Are you insinuating--"



"Hell, no! I'm _telling_ you!" Ritchie put his hand down suddenly, and

his voice calmed. "Ever wonder about those other two big buildings on

the premises here, Collins? Well, I can tell you about one of them,

because that's where I work. You might call it an experimental

laboratory if you like. Sometime later on I'll describe it to you. But

"Well, they can't stand the pressures of daily living, or the

prospects of a future when we'll be still more hemmed in."



Ritchie nodded. "Any more than you could, a few months ago, when you

tried to commit suicide. Wouldn't you say that _you_ were thinking

like a Naturalist then?"



Harry grimaced. "I suppose so."



"Don't feel ashamed. You saw the situation clearly, just as the

so-called Naturalists do. And just as the government does. Only the

government can't dare admit it--hence the secrecy behind this

project."



"A hush-hush government plan to stimulate further breeding? I still

don't see--"



"Look at the world," Ritchie repeated. "Look at it realistically.

What's the situation at present? Population close to six billion, and

rising fast. There was a leveling-off period in the Sixties, and then

it started to climb again. No wars, no disease to cut it down. The

development of synthetic foods, the use of algae and fungi, rules out

famine as a limiting factor. Increased harnessing of atomic power has

done away with widespread poverty, so there's no economic deterrent to

propagation. Neither church nor state dares set up a legal

prohibition. So here we are, at the millennium. In place of

international tension we've substituted internal tension. In place of

thermonuclear explosion, we have a population explosion."



"You make it look pretty grim."



"I'm just talking about today. What happens ten years from now, when

we hit a population-level of ten billion? What happens when we reach

twenty billion, fifty billion, a hundred? Don't talk to me about more

substitutes, more synthetics, new ways of conserving top-soil. There

just isn't going to be _room_ for everyone!"



"Then what's the answer?"



"That's what the government wants to know. Believe me, they've done a

lot of searching; most of it _sub rosa_. And then along came this man

Leffingwell, with _his_ solution. That's just what it is, of

course--an endocrinological solution, for direct injection."



"Leffingwell? The Dr. Leffingwell whose name was on that photostat?

What's he got to do with all this?"



"He's boss of this project," Ritchie said. "He's the one who persuaded




"I am. I could sleep for a week. That is, I _wish_ I could."



"Any luck?"



The President pushed the papers aside and drummed the desk for a

moment. Then he offered the Secretary a gray ghost of a smile.



"The answer's still the same."



"But this was our last chance--"



"I know." The President leaned back. "When I think of the time and

effort, the money that's been poured into these projects! To say

nothing of the hopes we had. And now, it's all for nothing."



"You can't say that," the Secretary answered. "After all, we did reach

the moon. We got to Mars." He paused. "No one can take that away from

you. You sponsored the Martian flights. You fought for the

appropriations, pushed the project, carried it through. You helped

mankind realize its greatest dream--"



"Save that for the newscasts," the President said. "The fact remains,

we've succeeded. And our success was a failure. Mankind's greatest

dream, eh? Read these reports and you'll find out this is mankind's

greatest nightmare."



"Is it that bad?"



"Yes." The President slumped in his chair. "It's that bad. We can

reach the moon at will. Now we can send a manned flight to Mars. But

it means nothing. We can't support life in either place. There's

absolutely no possibility of establishing or maintaining an outpost,

let alone a large colony or a permanent human residence. That's what

all the reports conclusively demonstrate.



"Every bit of oxygen, every bit of food and clothing and material,

would have to be supplied. And investigations prove there's no chance

of ever realizing any return. The cost of such an operation is

staggeringly prohibitive. Even if there was evidence to show it might

be possible to undertake some mining projects, it wouldn't begin to

defray expenses, once you consider the transportation factor."



"But if they improve the rockets, manage to make room for a bigger

payload, wouldn't it be cheaper?"



"It would still cost roughly a billion dollars to equip a flight and

maintain a personnel of twenty men for a year," the President told

outcome or issue of the experiments (_outcome? Issue? These horrors?_)

and that was why Manschoff must have chosen to take the risk of

keeping him alive. Because he was one of the _good_ guinea pigs, and

he had spawned, spawned living, mewing abominations.



He had dreamed of these things, and now he saw that they were real, so

that nightmare merged with _now_, and he could gaze down at it with

open eyes and scream at last with open mouth.



Then, of course, an attendant came running (_although he seemed to be

moving ever so slowly, because everything moves so slowly in a dream_)

and Harry saw him coming and lifted a bell-glass and smashed it down

over the man's head (_slowly, ever so slowly_) and then he heard the

others coming and he climbed out of the window and ran.



The searchlights winked across the courtyards and the sirens vomited

hysteria from metallic throats and the night was filled with shadows

that pursued.



But Harry knew where to run. He ran straight through the nightmare,

through all the fantastic but familiar convolutions of sight and

sound, and then he came to the river and plunged in.



Now the nightmare was not sight or sound, but merely sensation. Icy

cold and distilled darkness; ripples that ran, then raced and roiled

and roared. But there had to be a way out of the nightmare and there

had to be a way out of the canyon, and that way was the river.



Apparently no one else had thought of the river; perhaps they had

considered it as a possible avenue of escape and then discarded the

notion when they realized how it ripped and raged among the rocks as

it finally plunged from the canyon's mouth. Obviously, no one could

hope to combat that current and survive.



But strange things happen in nightmares. And you fight the numbness

and the blackness and you claw and convulse and you twist and turn and

toss and then you ride the crests of frenzy and plunge into the

troughs of panic and despair and you sweep round and round and sink










6. Harry Collins--2012





Harry crouched behind the boulders, propping the rifle up between the

rocks, and adjusted the telescopic sights. The distant doorway sprang

into sharp focus. Grunting with satisfaction, he settled down to his

vigil. The rifle-barrel had been dulled down against detection by

reflection, and Harry's dark glasses protected him against the glare

of the morning sun. He might have to wait several hours now, but he

didn't care. It had taken him twelve years to come this far, and he

was willing to wait a little while longer.



_Twelve years._ Was it really that long?



A mirror might have answered him; a mirror might have shown him the

harsh features of a man of forty-two. But Harry needed no mirror. He

could remember the past dozen years only too easily--though they had

not been easy years.



Surviving the river was only the beginning. Animal strength carried

him through that ordeal. But he emerged from the river as an animal; a

wounded animal, crawling through the brush and arroyo outside the

southern Colorado canyon.



And it was animal cunning which preserved him. He'd wandered several

days until he encountered Emil Grizek and his outfit. By that time he

was half-starved and completely delirious. It took a month until he

was up and around again.



But Emil and the boys had nursed him through. They took turns caring

for him in the bunkhouse; their methods were crude but efficient and

Harry was grateful. Best of all, they asked no questions. Harry's

status was that of a hunted fugitive, without a Vocational Apt record

or rating. The authorities or any prospective employers would inquire

into these things, but Emil Grizek never seemed curious. By the time

Harry was up and around again, he'd been accepted as one of the bunch.

He told them his name was Harry Sanders, and that was enough.



Two months after they found him, he'd signed on with Emil Grizek and

found a new role in life.



Harry Collins, advertising copywriter, had become Harry Sanders,

working cowhand.



But the next day he went to Grizek and demanded his pay in full.



"Leaving?" Grizek muttered. "I don't understand. You've been with us

almost five years. Where you going, what you intend to do? What's got

into you all of a sudden?"



"Time for a change," Harry told him. "I've been saving my money."



"Don't I know it? Never touched a penny in all this time." Grizek ran

a hand across his chin. "Say, if it's a raise you're looking for, I

can--"



"No, thanks. It's not that. I've money enough."



"So you have. Around eighteen, twenty thousand, I reckon, what with

the bonuses." Emil Grizek sighed. "Well, if you insist, that's the way

it's got to be, I suppose. When you plan on taking off?"



"Just as soon as there's a 'copter available."



"Got one going up to Colorado Springs tomorrow morning for the mail. I

can get you aboard, give you a check--"



"I'll want my money in cash."



"Well, now, that isn't so easy. Have to send up for a special draft.

Take a week or so."



"I can wait."



"All right. And think it over. Maybe you'll decide to change your

mind."



But Harry didn't change his mind. And ten days later he rode a 'copter

into town, his money-belt strapped beneath his safety-belt.



From Colorado Springs he jetted to Kancity, and from Kancity to

Memphisee. As long as he had money, nobody asked any questions. He

holed up in cheap airtels and waited for developments.



It wasn't easy to accustom himself to urbanization again. He had been

away from cities for over seven years now, and it might well have been

seven centuries. The overpopulation problem was appalling. The

outlawing of private automotive vehicles had helped, and the clearing

of the airlanes served a purpose; the widespread increase in the use

of atomic power cut the smog somewhat. But the synthetic food was

frightful, the crowding intolerable, and the welter of rules and

regulations attending the performance of even the simplest human


As he'd suspected, the school was located in the old canyon, right in

the same buildings which had once served as experimental units. How

many youngsters were there, Harry didn't know. Maybe Manschoff was

still on the staff, and maybe they'd brought in a whole new staff.

These things didn't matter. What mattered was that Leffingwell was on

the premises. And a man who knew his way about, a man who worked alone

and to a single purpose, could reach him.



Thus it was that Harry Collins crouched behind the boulder that bright

May morning and waited for Dr. Leffingwell to appear. The helicopter

had dropped him at the upper end of the canyon the day before, giving

him a chance to reconnoitre and familiarize himself with the terrain

once again. He'd located Leffingwell's quarters, even seen the man

through one of the lower windows. Harry had no trouble recognizing

him; the face was only too familiar from a thousand 'casts viewed on a

thousand screens. Inevitably, some time today, he'd emerge from the

building. And when he did, Harry would be waiting.



He shifted behind the rocks and stretched his legs. Twelve years had

passed, and now he'd come full circle. The whole business had started

here, and here it must end. That was simple justice.



_And it is justice_, Harry told himself. _It's not revenge._ Because

there'd be no point to revenge; that was only melodramatic nonsense.

He was no Monte Cristo, come to wreak vengeance on his cruel

oppressors. And he was no madman, no victim of a monomaniacal

obsession. What he was doing was the result of lengthy and logical

consideration.



If Harry Collins, longtime fugitive from a government treatment

center, tried to take his story to the people, he'd be silenced

without a hearing. But his story must be heard. There was only one way

to arrest the attention of a nation--with the report of a rifle.



A bullet in Leffingwell's brain; that was the solution of the problem.

Overnight the assassin would become a national figure. They'd

undoubtedly try him and undoubtedly condemn him, but first he'd have

his day in court. He'd get a chance to speak out. He'd give all the

before--perhaps long before Mike was born. They understood everything;

the gun and the presence and the purpose.



"Shoot!" the boy cried, not bothering to hold his voice down any

longer. For the elephant was moving slowly towards the side of the

wallow, moving deliberately to firmer footing, and the boy was afraid.

Mike was afraid, too, but he couldn't shoot.



"No," he murmured. "Let him go. I can't kill him."



"You must," the boy said. "You promise. Look--all the meat. Meat for

two, three villages."



Mike shook his head. "I can't do it," he said. "That isn't meat.

That's life. Bigger life than we are. Don't you understand? Oh, the

bloody hell with it! Come on."



The boy wasn't listening to him. He was watching the elephant. And now

he started to tremble.



For the elephant was moving up onto solid ground. It moved slowly,

daintily, almost mincing as its legs sampled the surface of the shore.

Then it looked up and this time there was no doubt as to the direction

of its gaze--it stared intently at Mike and the boy on the bank. Its

ears fanned, then flared. Suddenly the elephant raised its trunk and

trumpeted fiercely.



And then, lowering the black battering-ram of its head, the beast came

forward. A deceptively slow lope, a scarcely accelerated trot, and

then all at once it was moving swiftly, swiftly and surely and

inexorably towards them. The angle of the bank was not steep and the

elephant's speed never slackened on the slope. Its right shoulder

struck a sapling and the sapling splintered. It was crashing forward

in full charge. Again it trumpeted, trunk extended like a flail of

doom.



"Shoot!" screamed the boy.



Mike didn't want to shoot. He wanted to run. He wanted to flee the

mountain, flee the incredible breathing bulk of this grotesque giant.

But he was a white hunter, he was a man, and a man is not a beast; a

man does not run away from life in any shape or size.



The trunk came up. Mike raised the gun. He heard the monster roar, far


knocked out the chances of future war, but it also knocked out the

interest in speculation or escape-fiction. So I moved over into

television for a while, and stayed with it. But the old science

fiction was fun while it lasted. Ever read any of it?"



"No," Harry admitted. "That was all before my time. Tell me,

though--did any of it make sense? I mean, did some of those writers

foresee what was really going to happen?"



"There were plenty of penny prophets and nickel Nostradamuses," Wade

told him. "But as I said, most of them were assuming war with the

Communists or a new era of space travel. Since Communism collapsed and

space flight was just an expensive journey to a dead end and dead

worlds, it follows that the majority of fictional futures were founded

on fallacies. And all the rest of the extrapolations dealt with

superficial social manifestations.



"For example, they wrote about civilizations dominated by advertising

and mass-motivation techniques. It's true that during my childhood

this seemed to be a logical trend--but once demand exceeded supply,

the whole mechanism of _stimulating_ demand, which was advertising's

chief function, bogged down. And mass-motivation techniques, today,

are dedicated almost entirely to maintaining minimum resistance to a

system insuring our survival.



"Another popular idea was based on the notion of an expanding

matriarchy--a gerontomatriarchy, rather, in which older women would

take control. In an age when women outlived men by a number of years,

this seemed possible. Now, of course, shortened working hours and

medical advances have equalized the life-span. And since private

property has become less and less of a factor in dominating our

collective destinies, it hardly matters whether the male or the female

has the upper hand.



"Then there was the common theory that technological advances would

result in a push-button society, where automatons would do all the

work. And so they might--if we had an unlimited supply of raw

materials to produce robots, and unlimited power-sources to activate

them. As we now realize, atomic power cannot be utilized on a minute

scale.



"Last, but not least, there was the concept of a medically-orientated

study and contact here. Rebellion is not the answer."



"You hated Leffingwell."



"Yes, I did, until I realized that all this was inevitable.

Leffingwell is not a villain and neither is any given individual, in

or out of government. Our road to hell has been paved with only the

very best of intentions. Killing the engineers and contractors will

not get us off that road, and we're all on it together. We'll have to

find a way of changing the direction of our journey. The young people

will be too anxious to merely rush blindly ahead. Most of my

generation will be sheeplike, moving as part of the herd, because of

their conditioning. Only we old-time rebels will be capable of

plotting a course. A course for all of us."



"What about your son?" Austin asked.



"I'm thinking of him," Harry Collins answered. "Of him, and of all the

others. Maybe he does not need me. Maybe none of them need me. Maybe

it's all an illusion. But if the time ever comes, I'll be ready. And

meanwhile, I can hope."



"The time has come," Austin said, gently.



And then he was standing, miraculously enough, outside his cell and

before the door to Harry's cell, and the door was opening. And once

again Harry stared into the wide eyes he remembered so well--the same

wide eyes, set in the face of a fullgrown man. A fullgrown man, three

feet tall. He stood up, shakily, as the man held out his hand and

said, "Hello, Father."



"But I don't understand--"



"I've waited a long time for this moment. I had to talk to you, find

out how you really felt, so that I'd be sure. Now you're ready to join

us."



"What's happening? What do you want with me?"



"We'll talk later." Harry's son smiled. "Right now, I'm taking you

home."









9. Eric Donovan--2031





Eric was glad to get to the office and shut the door. Lately he'd had

this feeling whenever he went out, this feeling that people were




"Impossible?" Wolzek's voice was a mocking echo. "You sit here in this

tomb and when somebody tells you that the world you know has died, you

refuse to believe it. Even though every night, after you sneak home

and huddle up inside your room trying not to be noticed, ten guards

patrol this place with subatomics, so the Yardstick gangs won't break

in and take over. So they won't do what they did down south--overrun

the office buildings and the factories and break them up, cut them

down to size for living quarters."



"But they were stopped," Eric objected. "I saw it on the telescreen,

the security forces stopped them--"



"Crapola!" Wolzek pronounced the archaicism with studied care. "You

saw films. Faked films. Have you ever traveled, Eric? Ever been down

south and seen conditions there?"



"Nobody travels nowadays. You know that. Priorities."



"I travel, Eric. And I know. Security forces don't suppress anything

in the south these days. Because they're made up of Yardsticks now;

that's right, Yardsticks exclusively. And in a few years that's the

way it will be up here. Did you ever hear about the Chicagee riots?"



"You mean last year, when the Yardsticks tried to take over the

synthetic plants at the Stockyards?"



"Tried? They _succeeded_. The workers ousted management. Over fifty

thousand were killed in the revolution--oh, don't look so shocked,

that's the right word for it!--but the Yardsticks won out in the end."



"But the telescreen showed--"



"Damn the telescreen! I know because I happened to be there when it

happened. And if _you_ had been there, you and a few million other

ostriches who sit with your heads buried in telescreens, maybe we

could have stopped them."



"I don't believe it. I can't!"



"All right. Think back. That was last year. And since the first of

this year, what's happened to the standard size meat-ration?"



"They cut it in half," Eric admitted. "But that's because of Ag

shortages, according to the telescreen reports--" He stood up,

gulping. "Look here, I'm not going to listen to any more of this kind

spare you out of sentimentality. He had a purpose."



"A purpose in sending me to prison, letting me rot all these years

while--"



"While I grew up. I and the others like myself. And while the world

outside changed." Harry's son smiled. "Your friend Richard Wade was

right, you know. He guessed a great deal of the truth. Leffingwell and

Manschoff and the rest of their associates deliberately set out to

assemble a select group of nonconformists--men of specialized talents

and outlooks. There were over three hundred of you at Stark Falls.

Richard Wade knew why."



"And so he was dragged off and murdered."



"Murdered? No, Father, he's very much alive, I assure you. In fact,

he'll be here tonight."



"But why was he taken away so abruptly, without any warning?"



"He was needed. There was a crisis, when Dr. Leffingwell died."

Harry's son sighed. "You didn't know about that, did you? There's so

much for you to learn. But I'll let him tell you himself, when you see

him this evening."



Richard Wade told him. And so did William Chang and Lars Neilstrom and

all the others. During the ensuing weeks, Harry saw each of them

again. But Wade's explanation was sufficient.



"I was right," he said. "There was no Underground when we were at

Stark Falls. What I didn't realize, though, was that there was an

Overground."



"Overground?"



"You might call it that. Leffingwell and his staff formed the nucleus.

They foresaw the social crisis which lay ahead, when the world became

physically divided into the tall and the short, the young and the old.

They knew there'd be a need of individuality then--and they _did_

create a stockpile. A stockpile of the younger generation, specially

educated; a stockpile of the older generation, carefully selected. We

conspicuous rebels were incarcerated and given an opportunity to think

the problem through, with limited contact with one another's

viewpoints."



"But why weren't we told the truth at the beginning, allowed to meet

face-to-face and make some sensible plans for the future?"





out observation parties. Once we determine the exact situation, we can

plan accordingly. The world is going to need what we can give. It will

use what we have learned. It will accept our aid. One of these days--"



And he went on to outline a carefully-calculated program of making

contact with the powers that be, or might be. It sounded logical and

even the chronic grumblers and habitual pessimists in the group were

encouraged.



If at times they felt the situation fantastic and the hope forlorn,

they were heartened now. Richard Wade summed it up succinctly

afterwards, in a private conversation with Harry.



"It isn't going to be easy," he said. "In the old science fiction

yarns I used to write, a group like this would have been able to

prevent the revolution. At the very least, it would decide who won if

fighting actually broke out. But in reality we were too late to

forestall revolt, and we couldn't win the war no matter on whose side

we fought. There's just one job we're equipped for--and that's to win

the peace. I don't mean we'll step out of here and take over the

world, either. We'll have to move slowly and cautiously, dispersing in

little groups of five or six all over the country. And we'll have to

sound out men in the communities we go to, find those who are willing

to learn and willing to build. But we can be an influence, and an

important one. We have the knowledge and the skill. We may not be

chosen to lead, but we can _teach_ the leaders. And that's important."



Harry smiled in agreement. They _did_ have something to offer, and

surely it would be recognized--even if the Naturalists had won, even

if the entire country had sunk into semi-barbarism. No use

anticipating such problems now. Wait until fall came; then they'd

reconnoitre and find out. Wait until fall--



It was a wise decision, but one which ignored a single, important

fact. The Naturalists didn't wait until fall to conduct their

reconnaissance.



They came over the canyon that very night; a large group of them in a

Civilization has been restored, snatched from the very brink of a

barbarism that threatened to engulf us."



"Nonsense," Thurmon murmured.



"What?"



"Sheer nonsense, Littlejohn. You're talking like a pedant."



"But I _am_ a pedant." Littlejohn nodded. "And it's true. When the

Naturalists were exterminated, this nation and other nations were

literally destroyed. Worse than physical destruction was the threat of

mental and moral collapse. But the Yardstick councils arose to take

over. The concept of small government came into being and saved us. We

began to rebuild on a sensible scale, with local, limited control. The

little community arose--"



"Spare me the history lesson," said Thurmon, dryly. "We rebuilt, yes.

We survived. In a sense, perhaps, we even made certain advances. There

is no longer any economic rivalry, no social distinctions, no external

pressure. I think I can safely assume that the danger of future

warfare is forever banished. The balance of power is no longer a

factor. The balance of Nature has been partially restored. And only

one problem remains to plague mankind."



"What is that?"



"We face extinction," Thurmon said.



"But that's not true," Littlejohn interrupted. "Look at history and--"



"Look at us." Thurmon sighed. "You needn't bother with history. The

answer is written in our faces, in our own bodies. I've searched the

past very little, compared to your scholarship, but enough to know

that things were different in the old days. The Naturalists, whatever

else they might have been, were strong men. They walked freely in the

land, they lived lustily and long.



"Do you know what our average life-expectancy is today, Littlejohn? A

shade under forty years. And that only if one is fortunate enough to

lead a sheltered existence, as we do. In the mines, in the fields, in

the radioactive areas, they die before the age of thirty."



Littlejohn leaned forward. "Schuyler touches on just that point in his

_Psychology of Time_," he said, eagerly. "He posits the relationship

between size and duration. Time is relative, you know. Our lives,

short as they may be in terms of comparative chronology, nevertheless


had settled into his coasterchair did he notice the presence of the

other 'copter, and then it was too late. Too late to do anything

except sit and stare as the gigantic shadow loomed out of the night,

silhouetted against the sky.



The shadow shambled forward, and Littlejohn gaped, gaped in terror at

the titanic figure. He opened his mouth to speak, but words did not

form; there were no words to form, for how does one address an

apparition?



Instead, it was the apparition which spoke.



"I have been waiting for you," it said.



"Y-yes--"



"I want to talk to you." The voice was deep, menacing.



Littlejohn shifted in his coasterchair. There was nowhere to go, no

escape. He gazed up at the shadow. Finally he summoned a response.

"Shall we go inside?" he asked.



The figure shook its head. "Where? Down into that dollhouse of yours?

It isn't big enough. I've already been there. What I have to say can

be said right here."



"W-who are you?"



The figure stepped forward, so that its face was illuminated by the

fluorescence streaming from the open door which led to the inclined

chairway descending to Littlejohn's dwelling.



Littlejohn could see the face, now--the gigantic, wrinkled face,

scarred and seared and seamed. It was a human face, but utterly alien

to the humanity Littlejohn knew. Faces such as this one had

disappeared from the earth a lifetime ago. At least, history had

taught him that. History had not prepared him for the actual living

presence of a--



"Naturalist!" Littlejohn gasped. "You're a Naturalist! Yes, that's

what you are!"



The apparition scowled.



"I am not a Naturalist. I am a man."



"But you can't be! The war--"



"I am very old. I lived through your war. I have lived through your

peace. Soon I shall die. But before I do, there is something else

which must be done."



"You've come here to kill me?"



"Perhaps." The looming figure moved closer and stared down. "No, don't

