2.  The Milkman Sets Out on his Travels  3.  The Adventure of the Literary Innkeeper  4.  The Adventure of the Radical Candidate  5.  The Adventure of the Spectacled Roadman  6.  The Adventure of the Bald Archaeologist  7.  The Dry-Fly Fisherman  8.  The Coming of the Black Stone  9.  The Thirty-Nine Steps  10.  Various Parties Converging on the Sea        CHAPTER ONE    The Man Who Died    I returned from the City about three o'clock on that May afternoon  pretty well disgusted with life.  I had been three months in the Old  Country, and was fed up with it.  If anyone had told me a year ago that  I would have been feeling like that I should have laughed at him; but  there was the fact.  The weather made me liverish, the talk of the  ordinary Englishman made me sick. I couldn't get enough exercise, and  the amusements of London seemed as flat as soda-water that has been  standing in the sun.  'Richard Hannay,' I kept telling myself, 'you  have got into the wrong ditch, my friend, and you had better climb out.'    It made me bite my lips to think of the plans I had been building up  those last years in Bulawayo.  I had got my pile--not one of the big  ones, but good enough for me; and I had figured out all kinds of ways  of enjoying myself.  My father had brought me out from Scotland at the  age of six, and I had never been home since; so England was a sort of  Arabian Nights to me, and I counted on stopping there for the rest of  my days.    But from the first I was disappointed with it.  In about a week I was  tired of seeing sights, and in less than a month I had had enough of  restaurants and theatres and race-meetings.  I had no real pal to go  about with, which probably explains things.  Plenty of people invited 
was deadly.  That's why I have had to decease.'    He had another drink, and I mixed it for him myself, for I was getting  interested in the beggar.    'They can't get him in his own land, for he has a bodyguard of Epirotes  that would skin their grandmothers.  But on the 15th day of June he is  coming to this city.  The British Foreign Office has taken to having  International tea-parties, and the biggest of them is due on that date.  Now Karolides is reckoned the principal guest, and if my friends have  their way he will never return to his admiring countrymen.'    'That's simple enough, anyhow,' I said.  'You can warn him and keep him  at home.'    'And play their game?' he asked sharply.  'If he does not come they  win, for he's the only man that can straighten out the tangle.  And if  his Government are warned he won't come, for he does not know how big  the stakes will be on June the 15th.'    'What about the British Government?' I said.  'They're not going to let  their guests be murdered.  Tip them the wink, and they'll take extra  precautions.'    'No good.  They might stuff your city with plain-clothes detectives and  double the police and Constantine would still be a doomed man.  My  friends are not playing this game for candy.  They want a big occasion  for the taking off, with the eyes of all Europe on it.  He'll be  murdered by an Austrian, and there'll be plenty of evidence to show the  connivance of the big folk in Vienna and Berlin.  It will all be an  infernal lie, of course, but the case will look black enough to the  world.  I'm not talking hot air, my friend.  I happen to know every  detail of the hellish contrivance, and I can tell you it will be the  most finished piece of blackguardism since the Borgias.  But it's not  going to come off if there's a certain man who knows the wheels of the  business alive right here in London on the 15th day of June.  And that 
It was not the safety of his own skin that troubled him, but the  success of the scheme he had planned.  That little man was clean grit  all through, without a soft spot in him.  One night he was very solemn.    'Say, Hannay,' he said, 'I judge I should let you a bit deeper into  this business.  I should hate to go out without leaving somebody else  to put up a fight.'  And he began to tell me in detail what I had only  heard from him vaguely.    I did not give him very close attention.  The fact is, I was more  interested in his own adventures than in his high politics.  I reckoned  that Karolides and his affairs were not my business, leaving all that  to him.  So a lot that he said slipped clean out of my memory.  I  remember that he was very clear that the danger to Karolides would not  begin till he had got to London, and would come from the very highest  quarters, where there would be no thought of suspicion.  He mentioned  the name of a woman--Julia Czechenyi--as having something to do with  the danger.  She would be the decoy, I gathered, to get Karolides out  of the care of his guards.  He talked, too, about a Black Stone and a  man that lisped in his speech, and he described very particularly  somebody that he never referred to without a shudder--an old man with a  young voice who could hood his eyes like a hawk.    He spoke a good deal about death, too.  He was mortally anxious about  winning through with his job, but he didn't care a rush for his life.    'I reckon it's like going to sleep when you are pretty well tired out,  and waking to find a summer day with the scent of hay coming in at the  window.  I used to thank God for such mornings way back in the  Blue-Grass country, and I guess I'll thank Him when I wake up on the  other side of Jordan.'    Next day he was much more cheerful, and read the life of Stonewall 
  That seemed to me a good omen.  I lifted the cloth from the body and  was amazed at the peace and dignity of the dead face.  'Goodbye, old  chap,' I said; 'I am going to do my best for you.  Wish me well,  wherever you are.'    Then I hung about in the hall waiting for the milkman.  That was the  worst part of the business, for I was fairly choking to get out of  doors.  Six-thirty passed, then six-forty, but still he did not come.  The fool had chosen this day of all days to be late.    At one minute after the quarter to seven I heard the rattle of the cans  outside.  I opened the front door, and there was my man, singling out  my cans from a bunch he carried and whistling through his teeth.  He  jumped a bit at the sight of me.    'Come in here a moment,' I said.  'I want a word with you.'  And I led  him into the dining-room.    'I reckon you're a bit of a sportsman,' I said, 'and I want you to do  me a service.  Lend me your cap and overall for ten minutes, and here's  a sovereign for you.'    His eyes opened at the sight of the gold, and he grinned broadly.  'Wot's the gyme?'he asked.    'A bet,' I said.  'I haven't time to explain, but to win it I've got to  be a milkman for the next ten minutes.  All you've got to do is to stay  here till I come back.  You'll be a bit late, but nobody will complain,  and you'll have that quid for yourself.'    'Right-o!' he said cheerily.  'I ain't the man to spoil a bit of sport.  'Ere's the rig, guv'nor.'    I stuck on his flat blue hat and his white overall, picked up the cans,  banged my door, and went whistling downstairs.  The porter at the foot  told me to shut my jaw, which sounded as if my make-up was adequate.    At first I thought there was nobody in the street.  Then I caught sight 
There were two columns about the Portland Place Murder, as it was  called.  My man Paddock had given the alarm and had the milkman  arrested.  Poor devil, it looked as if the latter had earned his  sovereign hardly; but for me he had been cheap at the price, for he  seemed to have occupied the police for the better part of the day.  In  the latest news I found a further instalment of the story.  The milkman  had been released, I read, and the true criminal, about whose identity  the police were reticent, was believed to have got away from London by  one of the northern lines.  There was a short note about me as the  owner of the flat.  I guessed the police had stuck that in, as a clumsy  contrivance to persuade me that I was unsuspected.    There was nothing else in the paper, nothing about foreign politics or  Karolides, or the things that had interested Scudder.  I laid it down,  and found that we were approaching the station at which I had got out  yesterday.  The potato-digging station-master had been gingered up into  some activity, for the west-going train was waiting to let us pass, and  from it had descended three men who were asking him questions.  I  supposed that they were the local police, who had been stirred up by  Scotland Yard, and had traced me as far as this one-horse siding.  Sitting well back in the shadow I watched them carefully.  One of them  had a book, and took down notes.  The old potato-digger seemed to have  turned peevish, but the child who had collected my ticket was talking  volubly.  All the party looked out across the moor where the white road  departed.  I hoped they were going to take up my tracks there.    As we moved away from that station my companion woke up.  He fixed me  with a wandering glance, kicked his dog viciously, and inquired where  he was.  Clearly he was very drunk.    'That's what comes o' bein' a teetotaller,' he observed in bitter  regret.    I expressed my surprise that in him I should have met a blue-ribbon 
  'Of course I do,' and he held out his hand.  'I believe everything out  of the common.  The only thing to distrust is the normal.'    He was very young, but he was the man for my money.    'I think they're off my track for the moment, but I must lie close for  a couple of days.  Can you take me in?'    He caught my elbow in his eagerness and drew me towards the house.  'You can lie as snug here as if you were in a moss-hole.  I'll see that  nobody blabs, either.  And you'll give me some more material about your  adventures?'    As I entered the inn porch I heard from far off the beat of an engine.  There silhouetted against the dusky West was my friend, the monoplane.    He gave me a room at the back of the house, with a fine outlook over  the plateau, and he made me free of his own study, which was stacked  with cheap editions of his favourite authors.  I never saw the  grandmother, so I guessed she was bedridden.  An old woman called  Margit brought me my meals, and the innkeeper was around me at all  hours.  I wanted some time to myself, so I invented a job for him.  He  had a motor-bicycle, and I sent him off next morning for the daily  paper, which usually arrived with the post in the late afternoon.  I  told him to keep his eyes skinned, and make note of any strange figures  he saw, keeping a special sharp look-out for motors and aeroplanes.  Then I sat down in real earnest to Scudder's note-book.    He came back at midday with the SCOTSMAN.  There was nothing in it,  except some further evidence of Paddock and the milkman, and a  repetition of yesterday's statement that the murderer had gone North.  But there was a long article, reprinted from THE TIMES, about Karolides  and the state of affairs in the Balkans, though there was no mention of  any visit to England.  I got rid of the innkeeper for the afternoon,  for I was getting very warm in my search for the cypher. 
less than a statement of the disposition of the British Home Fleet on  mobilization.  At least I gathered it was something like that; anyhow,  it was something uncommonly important.    But on the 15th day of June there were to be others in London--others,  at whom I could only guess.  Scudder was content to call them  collectively the 'Black Stone'.  They represented not our Allies, but  our deadly foes; and the information, destined for France, was to be  diverted to their pockets.  And it was to be used, remember--used a  week or two later, with great guns and swift torpedoes, suddenly in the  darkness of a summer night.    This was the story I had been deciphering in a back room of a country  inn, overlooking a cabbage garden.  This was the story that hummed in  my brain as I swung in the big touring-car from glen to glen.    My first impulse had been to write a letter to the Prime Minister, but  a little reflection convinced me that that would be useless.  Who would  believe my tale?  I must show a sign, some token in proof, and Heaven  knew what that could be.  Above all, I must keep going myself, ready to  act when things got riper, and that was going to be no light job with  the police of the British Isles in full cry after me and the watchers  of the Black Stone running silently and swiftly on my trail.    I had no very clear purpose in my journey, but I steered east by the  sun, for I remembered from the map that if I went north I would come  into a region of coalpits and industrial towns.  Presently I was down  from the moorlands and traversing the broad haugh of a river.  For  miles I ran alongside a park wall, and in a break of the trees I saw a  great castle.  I swung through little old thatched villages, and over  peaceful lowland streams, and past gardens blazing with hawthorn and  yellow laburnum.  The land was so deep in peace that I could scarcely  believe that somewhere behind me were those who sought my life; ay, and 
talked about the 'German menace', and said it was all a Tory invention  to cheat the poor of their rights and keep back the great flood of  social reform, but that 'organized labour' realized this and laughed  the Tories to scorn.  He was all for reducing our Navy as a proof of  our good faith, and then sending Germany an ultimatum telling her to do  the same or we would knock her into a cocked hat.  He said that, but  for the Tories, Germany and Britain would be fellow-workers in peace  and reform.  I thought of the little black book in my pocket!  A giddy  lot Scudder's friends cared for peace and reform.    Yet in a queer way I liked the speech.  You could see the niceness of  the chap shining out behind the muck with which he had been spoon-fed.  Also it took a load off my mind.  I mightn't be much of an orator, but  I was a thousand per cent better than Sir Harry.    I didn't get on so badly when it came to my turn.  I simply told them  all I could remember about Australia, praying there should be no  Australian there--all about its labour party and emigration and  universal service.  I doubt if I remembered to mention Free Trade, but  I said there were no Tories in Australia, only Labour and Liberals.  That fetched a cheer, and I woke them up a bit when I started in to  tell them the kind of glorious business I thought could be made out of  the Empire if we really put our backs into it.    Altogether I fancy I was rather a success.  The minister didn't like  me, though, and when he proposed a vote of thanks, spoke of Sir Harry's  speech as 'statesmanlike' and mine as having 'the eloquence of an  emigration agent'.    When we were in the car again my host was in wild spirits at having got  his job over.  'A ripping speech, Twisdon,' he said.  'Now, you're  coming home with me.  I'm all alone, and if you'll stop a day or two  I'll show you some very decent fishing.' 
perhaps more--moving in a glen beyond the stream?    If you are hemmed in on all sides in a patch of land there is only one  chance of escape.  You must stay in the patch, and let your enemies  search it and not find you.  That was good sense, but how on earth was  I to escape notice in that table-cloth of a place?  I would have buried  myself to the neck in mud or lain below water or climbed the tallest  tree.  But there was not a stick of wood, the bog-holes were little  puddles, the stream was a slender trickle.  There was nothing but short  heather, and bare hill bent, and the white highway.    Then in a tiny bight of road, beside a heap of stones, I found the  roadman.    He had just arrived, and was wearily flinging down his hammer.  He  looked at me with a fishy eye and yawned.    'Confoond the day I ever left the herdin'!' he said, as if to the world  at large.  'There I was my ain maister.  Now I'm a slave to the  Goavernment, tethered to the roadside, wi' sair een, and a back like a  suckle.'    He took up the hammer, struck a stone, dropped the implement with an  oath, and put both hands to his ears.  'Mercy on me!  My heid's  burstin'!' he cried.    He was a wild figure, about my own size but much bent, with a week's  beard on his chin, and a pair of big horn spectacles.    'I canna dae't,' he cried again.  'The Surveyor maun just report me.  I'm for my bed.'    I asked him what was the trouble, though indeed that was clear enough.    'The trouble is that I'm no sober.  Last nicht my dochter Merran was  waddit, and they danced till fower in the byre.  Me and some ither  chiels sat down to the drinkin', and here I am.  Peety that I ever  lookit on the wine when it was red!'    I agreed with him about bed.  'It's easy speakin',' he moaned.  'But I 
stones.  It was as well, for ten minutes later the car returned, one of  the occupants waving a hand to me.  Those gentry left nothing to chance.    I finished Turnbull's bread and cheese, and pretty soon I had finished  the stones.  The next step was what puzzled me.  I could not keep up  this roadmaking business for long.  A merciful Providence had kept Mr  Turnbull indoors, but if he appeared on the scene there would be  trouble.  I had a notion that the cordon was still tight round the  glen, and that if I walked in any direction I should meet with  questioners.  But get out I must.  No man's nerve could stand more than  a day of being spied on.    I stayed at my post till five o'clock.  By that time I had resolved to  go down to Turnbull's cottage at nightfall and take my chance of  getting over the hills in the darkness.  But suddenly a new car came up  the road, and slowed down a yard or two from me.  A fresh wind had  risen, and the occupant wanted to light a cigarette.  It was a touring  car, with the tonneau full of an assortment of baggage.  One man sat in  it, and by an amazing chance I knew him.  His name was Marmaduke  Jopley, and he was an offence to creation.  He was a sort of blood  stockbroker, who did his business by toadying eldest sons and rich  young peers and foolish old ladies.  'Marmie' was a familiar figure, I  understood, at balls and polo-weeks and country houses.  He was an  adroit scandal-monger, and would crawl a mile on his belly to anything  that had a title or a million.  I had a business introduction to his  firm when I came to London, and he was good enough to ask me to dinner  at his club.  There he showed off at a great rate, and pattered about  his duchesses till the snobbery of the creature turned me sick.  I  asked a man afterwards why nobody kicked him, and was told that  Englishmen reverenced the weaker sex. 
than, looking back, I saw the pursuit topping the ridge from which I  had descended.    After that I did not look back; I had no time.  I ran up the burnside,  crawling over the open places, and for a large part wading in the  shallow stream.  I found a deserted cottage with a row of phantom  peat-stacks and an overgrown garden.  Then I was among young hay, and  very soon had come to the edge of a plantation of wind-blown firs.  From there I saw the chimneys of the house smoking a few hundred yards  to my left.  I forsook the burnside, crossed another dyke, and almost  before I knew was on a rough lawn.  A glance back told me that I was  well out of sight of the pursuit, which had not yet passed the first  lift of the moor.    The lawn was a very rough place, cut with a scythe instead of a mower,  and planted with beds of scrubby rhododendrons.  A brace of black-game,  which are not usually garden birds, rose at my approach.  The house  before me was the ordinary moorland farm, with a more pretentious  whitewashed wing added.  Attached to this wing was a glass veranda, and  through the glass I saw the face of an elderly gentleman meekly  watching me.    I stalked over the border of coarse hill gravel and entered the open  veranda door.  Within was a pleasant room, glass on one side, and on  the other a mass of books.  More books showed in an inner room.  On the  floor, instead of tables, stood cases such as you see in a museum,  filled with coins and queer stone implements.    There was a knee-hole desk in the middle, and seated at it, with some  papers and open volumes before him, was the benevolent old gentleman.  His face was round and shiny, like Mr Pickwick's, big glasses were  stuck on the end of his nose, and the top of his head was as bright and  bare as a glass bottle.  He never moved when I entered, but raised his  placid eyebrows and waited on me to speak. 
  The storeroom was a damp chamber in what had been the old farmhouse.  There was no carpet on the uneven floor, and nothing to sit down on but  a school form.  It was black as pitch, for the windows were heavily  shuttered.  I made out by groping that the walls were lined with boxes  and barrels and sacks of some heavy stuff.  The whole place smelt of  mould and disuse.  My gaolers turned the key in the door, and I could  hear them shifting their feet as they stood on guard outside.    I sat down in that chilly darkness in a very miserable frame of mind.  The old boy had gone off in a motor to collect the two ruffians who had  interviewed me yesterday.  Now, they had seen me as the roadman, and  they would remember me, for I was in the same rig.  What was a roadman  doing twenty miles from his beat, pursued by the police?  A question or  two would put them on the track.  Probably they had seen Mr Turnbull,  probably Marmie too; most likely they could link me up with Sir Harry,  and then the whole thing would be crystal clear.  What chance had I in  this moorland house with three desperadoes and their armed servants?    I began to think wistfully of the police, now plodding over the hills  after my wraith.  They at any rate were fellow-countrymen and honest  men, and their tender mercies would be kinder than these ghoulish  aliens.  But they wouldn't have listened to me.  That old devil with  the eyelids had not taken long to get rid of them.  I thought he  probably had some kind of graft with the constabulary.  Most likely he  had letters from Cabinet Ministers saying he was to be given every  facility for plotting against Britain.  That's the sort of owlish way  we run our politics in the Old Country.    The three would be back for lunch, so I hadn't more than a couple of  hours to wait.  It was simply waiting on destruction, for I could see  no way out of this mess.  I wished that I had Scudder's courage, for I 
mostly, with a few ashes and beeches.  On the dovecot I was almost on a  level with the tree-tops, and could see what lay beyond.  The wood was  not solid, but only a ring, and inside was an oval of green turf, for  all the world like a big cricket-field.    I didn't take long to guess what it was.  It was an aerodrome, and a  secret one.  The place had been most cunningly chosen.  For suppose  anyone were watching an aeroplane descending here, he would think it  had gone over the hill beyond the trees.  As the place was on the top  of a rise in the midst of a big amphitheatre, any observer from any  direction would conclude it had passed out of view behind the hill.  Only a man very close at hand would realize that the aeroplane had not  gone over but had descended in the midst of the wood.  An observer with  a telescope on one of the higher hills might have discovered the truth,  but only herds went there, and herds do not carry spy-glasses.  When I  looked from the dovecot I could see far away a blue line which I knew  was the sea, and I grew furious to think that our enemies had this  secret conning-tower to rake our waterways.    Then I reflected that if that aeroplane came back the chances were ten  to one that I would be discovered.  So through the afternoon I lay and  prayed for the coming of darkness, and glad I was when the sun went  down over the big western hills and the twilight haze crept over the  moor.  The aeroplane was late.  The gloaming was far advanced when I  heard the beat of wings and saw it volplaning downward to its home in  the wood.  Lights twinkled for a bit and there was much coming and  going from the house.  Then the dark fell, and silence.    Thank God it was a black night.  The moon was well on its last quarter  and would not rise till late.  My thirst was too great to allow me to  tarry, so about nine o'clock, so far as I could judge, I started to 
down the sunny vale of Annan.  I talked of Galloway markets and sheep  prices, and he made up his mind I was a 'pack-shepherd' from those  parts--whatever that may be.  My plaid and my old hat, as I have said,  gave me a fine theatrical Scots look.  But driving cattle is a mortally  slow job, and we took the better part of the day to cover a dozen miles.    If I had not had such an anxious heart I would have enjoyed that time.  It was shining blue weather, with a constantly changing prospect of  brown hills and far green meadows, and a continual sound of larks and  curlews and falling streams.  But I had no mind for the summer, and  little for Hislop's conversation, for as the fateful fifteenth of June  drew near I was overweighed with the hopeless difficulties of my  enterprise.    I got some dinner in a humble Moffat public-house, and walked the two  miles to the junction on the main line.  The night express for the  south was not due till near midnight, and to fill up the time I went up  on the hillside and fell asleep, for the walk had tired me.  I all but  slept too long, and had to run to the station and catch the train with  two minutes to spare.  The feel of the hard third-class cushions and  the smell of stale tobacco cheered me up wonderfully.  At any rate, I  felt now that I was getting to grips with my job.    I was decanted at Crewe in the small hours and had to wait till six to  get a train for Birmingham.  In the afternoon I got to Reading, and  changed into a local train which journeyed into the deeps of Berkshire.  Presently I was in a land of lush water-meadows and slow reedy streams.  About eight o'clock in the evening, a weary and travel-stained being--a  cross between a farm-labourer and a vet--with a checked black-and-white  plaid over his arm (for I did not dare to wear it south of the Border),  descended at the little station of Artinswell.  There were several  people on the platform, and I thought I had better wait to ask my way 
him on the 31st of May.'    'But he had been dead a week by then.'    'The letter was written and posted on the 23rd.  He evidently did not  anticipate an immediate decease.  His communications usually took a  week to reach me, for they were sent under cover to Spain and then to  Newcastle.  He had a mania, you know, for concealing his tracks.'    'What did he say?' I stammered.    'Nothing.  Merely that he was in danger, but had found shelter with a  good friend, and that I would hear from him before the 15th of June.  He gave me no address, but said he was living near Portland Place.  I  think his object was to clear you if anything happened.  When I got it  I went to Scotland Yard, went over the details of the inquest, and  concluded that you were the friend.  We made inquiries about you, Mr  Hannay, and found you were respectable.  I thought I knew the motives  for your disappearance--not only the police, the other one too--and  when I got Harry's scrawl I guessed at the rest.  I have been expecting  you any time this past week.' You can imagine what a load this took off  my mind.  I felt a free man once more, for I was now up against my  country's enemies only, and not my country's law.    'Now let us have the little note-book,' said Sir Walter.    It took us a good hour to work through it.  I explained the cypher, and  he was jolly quick at picking it up.  He emended my reading of it on  several points, but I had been fairly correct, on the whole.  His face  was very grave before he had finished, and he sat silent for a while.    'I don't know what to make of it,' he said at last.  'He is right about  one thing--what is going to happen the day after tomorrow.  How the  devil can it have got known?  That is ugly enough in itself.  But all  this about war and the Black Stone--it reads like some wild melodrama. 
My irritation lasted through dinner, which I had at a restaurant in  Jermyn Street.  I was no longer hungry, and let several courses pass  untasted.  I drank the best part of a bottle of Burgundy, but it did  nothing to cheer me.  An abominable restlessness had taken possession  of me.  Here was I, a very ordinary fellow, with no particular brains,  and yet I was convinced that somehow I was needed to help this business  through--that without me it would all go to blazes.  I told myself it  was sheer silly conceit, that four or five of the cleverest people  living, with all the might of the British Empire at their back, had the  job in hand.  Yet I couldn't be convinced.  It seemed as if a voice  kept speaking in my ear, telling me to be up and doing, or I would  never sleep again.    The upshot was that about half-past nine I made up my mind to go to  Queen Anne's Gate.  Very likely I would not be admitted, but it would  ease my conscience to try.    I walked down Jermyn Street, and at the corner of Duke Street passed a  group of young men.  They were in evening dress, had been dining  somewhere, and were going on to a music-hall.  One of them was Mr  Marmaduke Jopley.    He saw me and stopped short.    'By God, the murderer!' he cried.  'Here, you fellows, hold him!  That's Hannay, the man who did the Portland Place murder!'  He gripped  me by the arm, and the others crowded round.  I wasn't looking for any  trouble, but my ill-temper made me play the fool.  A policeman came up,  and I should have told him the truth, and, if he didn't believe it,  demanded to be taken to Scotland Yard, or for that matter to the  nearest police station.  But a delay at that moment seemed to me  unendurable, and the sight of Marmie's imbecile face was more than I  could bear.  I let out with my left, and had the satisfaction of seeing  him measure his length in the gutter. 
used to carry my luncheon basket--one of the salted dun breed you got  at Timbuctoo in the old days.  Well, one morning I had good sport, and  the mare was unaccountably restless.  I could hear her whinnying and  squealing and stamping her feet, and I kept soothing her with my voice  while my mind was intent on fish.  I could see her all the time, as I  thought, out of a corner of my eye, tethered to a tree twenty yards  away.  After a couple of hours I began to think of food.  I collected  my fish in a tarpaulin bag, and moved down the stream towards the mare,  trolling my line.  When I got up to her I flung the tarpaulin on her  back--'    He paused and looked round.    'It was the smell that gave me warning.  I turned my head and found  myself looking at a lion three feet off ...  An old man-eater, that was  the terror of the village ...  What was left of the mare, a mass of  blood and bones and hide, was behind him.'    'What happened?' I asked.  I was enough of a hunter to know a true yarn  when I heard it.    'I stuffed my fishing-rod into his jaws, and I had a pistol.  Also my  servants came presently with rifles.  But he left his mark on me.' He  held up a hand which lacked three fingers.    'Consider,' he said.  'The mare had been dead more than an hour, and  the brute had been patiently watching me ever since.  I never saw the  kill, for I was accustomed to the mare's fretting, and I never marked  her absence, for my consciousness of her was only of something tawny,  and the lion filled that part.  If I could blunder thus, gentlemen, in  a land where men's senses are keen, why should we busy preoccupied  urban folk not err also?'    Sir Walter nodded.  No one was ready to gainsay him.    'But I don't see,' went on Winstanley.  'Their object was to get these  dispositions without our knowing it.  Now it only required one of us to 
Then an idea struck me.  'Is there no Inspector of Coastguards or some  fellow like that who knows the East Coast?'    Whittaker said there was, and that he lived in Clapham.  He went off in  a car to fetch him, and the rest of us sat about the little room and  talked of anything that came into our heads.  I lit a pipe and went  over the whole thing again till my brain grew weary.    About one in the morning the coastguard man arrived.  He was a fine old  fellow, with the look of a naval officer, and was desperately  respectful to the company.  I left the War Minister to cross-examine  him, for I felt he would think it cheek in me to talk.    'We want you to tell us the places you know on the East Coast where  there are cliffs, and where several sets of steps run down to the  beach.'    He thought for a bit.  'What kind of steps do you mean, Sir?  There are  plenty of places with roads cut down through the cliffs, and most roads  have a step or two in them.  Or do you mean regular staircases--all  steps, so to speak?'    Sir Arthur looked towards me.  'We mean regular staircases,' I said.    He reflected a minute or two.  'I don't know that I can think of any.  Wait a second.  There's a place in Norfolk--Brattlesham--beside a  golf-course, where there are a couple of staircases, to let the  gentlemen get a lost ball.'    'That's not it,' I said.    'Then there are plenty of Marine Parades, if that's what you mean.  Every seaside resort has them.'    I shook my head.  'It's got to be more retired than that,' I said.    'Well, gentlemen, I can't think of anywhere else.  Of course, there's  the Ruff--'    'What's that?' I asked.    'The big chalk headland in Kent, close to Bradgate.  It's got a lot of  villas on the top, and some of the houses have staircases down to a  private beach.  It's a very high-toned sort of place, and the residents 
on earth.  Mystery and darkness had hung about the men who hunted me  over the Scotch moor in aeroplane and motor-car, and notably about that  infernal antiquarian.  It was easy enough to connect those folk with  the knife that pinned Scudder to the floor, and with fell designs on  the world's peace.  But here were two guileless citizens taking their  innocuous exercise, and soon about to go indoors to a humdrum dinner,  where they would talk of market prices and the last cricket scores and  the gossip of their native Surbiton.  I had been making a net to catch  vultures and falcons, and lo and behold! two plump thrushes had  blundered into it.    Presently a third figure arrived, a young man on a bicycle, with a bag  of golf-clubs slung on his back.  He strolled round to the tennis lawn  and was welcomed riotously by the players.  Evidently they were  chaffing him, and their chaff sounded horribly English.  Then the plump  man, mopping his brow with a silk handkerchief, announced that he must  have a tub.  I heard his very words--'I've got into a proper lather,'  he said.  'This will bring down my weight and my handicap, Bob.  I'll  take you on tomorrow and give you a stroke a hole.'  You couldn't find  anything much more English than that.    They all went into the house, and left me feeling a precious idiot.  I  had been barking up the wrong tree this time.  These men might be  acting; but if they were, where was their audience?  They didn't know I  was sitting thirty yards off in a rhododendron.  It was simply  impossible to believe that these three hearty fellows were anything but  what they seemed--three ordinary, game-playing, suburban Englishmen,  wearisome, if you like, but sordidly innocent.    And yet there were three of them; and one was old, and one was plump,  and one was lean and dark; and their house chimed in with Scudder's  notes; and half a mile off was lying a steam yacht with at least one  German officer.  I thought of Karolides lying dead and all Europe 
  'Right, Percy!  Of course that's easy enough.  The 23rd!  That was the  day after Agatha's wedding.  Let me see.  What was I doing?  I came up  in the morning from Woking, and lunched at the club with Charlie  Symons.  Then--oh yes, I dined with the Fishmongers.  I remember, for  the punch didn't agree with me, and I was seedy next morning.  Hang it  all, there's the cigar-box I brought back from the dinner.'  He pointed  to an object on the table, and laughed nervously.    'I think, Sir,' said the young man, addressing me respectfully, 'you  will see you are mistaken.  We want to assist the law like all  Englishmen, and we don't want Scotland Yard to be making fools of  themselves.  That's so, uncle?'    'Certainly, Bob.'  The old fellow seemed to be recovering his voice.  'Certainly, we'll do anything in our power to assist the authorities.  But--but this is a bit too much.  I can't get over it.'    'How Nellie will chuckle,' said the plump man.  'She always said that  you would die of boredom because nothing ever happened to you.  And now  you've got it thick and strong,' and he began to laugh very pleasantly.    'By Jove, yes.  Just think of it!  What a story to tell at the club.  Really, Mr Hannay, I suppose I should be angry, to show my innocence,  but it's too funny!  I almost forgive you the fright you gave me!  You  looked so glum, I thought I might have been walking in my sleep and  killing people.'    It couldn't be acting, it was too confoundedly genuine.  My heart went  into my boots, and my first impulse was to apologize and clear out.  But I told myself I must see it through, even though I was to be the  laughing-stock of Britain.  The light from the dinner-table  candlesticks was not very good, and to cover my confusion I got up,  walked to the door and switched on the electric light.  The sudden  glare made them blink, and I stood scanning the three faces. 
