

PART II



  12.  I Become a Combatant Once More

  13.  The Adventure of the Picardy Chateau

  14.  Mr Blenkiron Discourses on Love and War

  15.  St Anton

  16.  I Lie on a Hard Bed

  17.  The Col of the Swallows

  18.  The Underground Railway

  19.  The Cage of the Wild Birds

  20.  The Storm Breaks in the West

  21.  How an Exile Returned to His Own People

  22.  The Summons Comes for Mr Standfast







NOTE



The earlier adventures of Richard Hannay, to which occasional reference

is made in this narrative, are recounted in _The Thirty-Nine Steps_ and

_Greenmantle_.



J.B.











PART I







CHAPTER ONE



The Wicket-Gate



I spent one-third of my journey looking out of the window of a

first-class carriage, the next in a local motor-car following the

course of a trout stream in a shallow valley, and the last tramping

over a ridge of downland through great beech-woods to my quarters for

the night. In the first part I was in an infamous temper; in the second

I was worried and mystified; but the cool twilight of the third stage

calmed and heartened me, and I reached the gates of Fosse Manor with a

mighty appetite and a quiet mind.



As we slipped up the Thames valley on the smooth Great Western line I

had reflected ruefully on the thorns in the path of duty. For more than

a year I had never been out of khaki, except the months I spent in

hospital. They gave me my battalion before the Somme, and I came out of

that weary battle after the first big September fighting with a crack

in my head and a D.S.O. I had received a C.B. for the Erzerum business,

so what with these and my Matabele and South African medals and the



'Good. Then my first order will try you pretty hard. For I have no

orders to give you except to bid you go and steep yourself in a

particular kind of life. Your first duty is to get "atmosphere", as

your friend Peter used to say. Oh, I will tell you where to go and how

to behave. But I can't bid you do anything, only live idly with open

eyes and ears till you have got the "feel" of the situation.'



She stopped and laid a hand on my arm.



'It won't be easy. It would madden me, and it will be a far heavier

burden for a man like you. You have got to sink down deep into the life

of the half-baked, the people whom this war hasn't touched or has

touched in the wrong way, the people who split hairs all day and are

engrossed in what you and I would call selfish little fads. Yes. People

like my aunts and Launcelot, only for the most part in a different

social grade. You won't live in an old manor like this, but among

gimcrack little "arty" houses. You will hear everything you regard as

sacred laughed at and condemned, and every kind of nauseous folly

acclaimed, and you must hold your tongue and pretend to agree. You will

have nothing in the world to do except to let the life soak into you,

and, as I have said, keep your eyes and ears open.'



'But you must give me some clue as to what I should be looking for?'



'My orders are to give you none. Our chiefs--yours and mine--want you

to go where you are going without any kind of _parti pris_. Remember we

are still in the intelligence stage of the affair. The time hasn't yet

come for a plan of campaign, and still less for action.'



'Tell me one thing,' I said. 'Is it a really big thing we're after?'



'A--really--big--thing,' she said slowly and very gravely. 'You and I

and some hundred others are hunting the most dangerous man in all the

world. Till we succeed everything that Britain does is crippled. If we

in the yarn. 'I reckon if it had been true,' he said, 'we'd have had

the right text out long ago. They'd have kept a copy in Berlin. All the

same I did hear a sort of rumour that some kind of message of that sort

was published in a German paper.'



Mr Ivery looked wise. 'You are right,' he said. 'I happen to know that

it has been published. You will find it in the _Wiener Zeitung_.'



'You don't say?' he said admiringly. 'I wish I could read the old

tombstone language. But if I could they wouldn't let me have the

papers.'



'Oh yes they would.' Mr Ivery laughed pleasantly. 'England has still a

good share of freedom. Any respectable person can get a permit to

import the enemy press. I'm not considered quite respectable, for the

authorities have a narrow definition of patriotism, but happily I have

respectable friends.'



Blenkiron was staying the night, and I took my leave as the clock

struck twelve. They both came into the hall to see me off, and, as I

was helping myself to a drink, and my host was looking for my hat and

stick, I suddenly heard Blenkiron's whisper in my ear. 'London ... the

day after tomorrow,' he said. Then he took a formal farewell. 'Mr

Brand, it's been an honour for me, as an American citizen, to make your

acquaintance, sir. I will consider myself fortunate if we have an early

reunion. I am stopping at Claridge's Ho-tel, and I hope to be

privileged to receive you there.'







CHAPTER THREE



The Reflections of a Cured Dyspeptic



Thirty-five hours later I found myself in my rooms in Westminster. I

thought there might be a message for me there, for I didn't propose to

go and call openly on Blenkiron at Claridge's till I had his

instructions. But there was no message--only a line from Peter, saying

he had hopes of being sent to Switzerland. That made me realize that he

must be pretty badly broken up.



Presently the telephone bell rang. It was Blenkiron who spoke. 'Go down



'For ninety per cent in ony ballot. I don't say that there's not plenty

of riff-raff--the pint-and-a-dram gentry and the soft-heads that are

aye reading bits of newspapers, and muddlin' their wits with foreign

whigmaleeries. But the average man on the Clyde, like the average man

in ither places, hates just three things, and that's the Germans, the

profiteers, as they call them, and the Irish. But he hates the Germans

first.'



'The Irish!' I exclaimed in astonishment.



'Ay, the Irish,' cried the last of the old Border radicals. 'Glasgow's

stinkin' nowadays with two things, money and Irish. I mind the day when

I followed Mr Gladstone's Home Rule policy, and used to threep about

the noble, generous, warm-hearted sister nation held in a foreign

bondage. My Goad! I'm not speakin' about Ulster, which is a dour,

ill-natured den, but our own folk all the same. But the men that will

not do a hand's turn to help the war and take the chance of our

necessities to set up a bawbee rebellion are hateful to Goad and man.

We treated them like pet lambs and that's the thanks we get. They're

coming over here in thousands to tak the jobs of the lads that are

doing their duty. I was speakin' last week to a widow woman that keeps

a wee dairy down the Dalmarnock Road. She has two sons, and both in the

airmy, one in the Cameronians and one a prisoner in Germany. She was

telling me that she could not keep goin' any more, lacking the help of

the boys, though she had worked her fingers to the bone. "Surely it's a

crool job, Mr Amos," she says, "that the Goavernment should tak baith

my laddies, and I'll maybe never see them again, and let the Irish gang

free and tak the bread frae our mouth. At the gasworks across the road

they took on a hundred Irish last week, and every yin o' them as young

and well set up as you would ask to see. And my wee Davie, him that's

in Germany, had aye a weak chest, and Jimmy was troubled wi' a bowel

complaint. That's surely no justice!". ...'

good game to see just how far you could get into the forbidden land. A

man like you could put up a good bluff on those hayseeds. I don't mind

having a bet ...'



'No,' I said. 'I'm out for a rest, and not for sport. If there was

anything to be gained I'd undertake to bluff my way to the Orkney

Islands. But it's a wearing job and I've better things to think about.'



'So? Well, enjoy yourself your own way. I'll be sorry when you leave

us, for I owe you something for that rough-house, and beside there's

darned little company in the old moss-back captain.'



That evening Gresson and I swopped yarns after supper to the

accompaniment of the 'Ma Goad!' and 'Is't possible?' of captain and

mate. I went to bed after a glass or two of weak grog, and made up for

the last night's vigil by falling sound asleep. I had very little kit

with me, beyond what I stood up in and could carry in my waterproof

pockets, but on Amos's advice I had brought my little nickel-plated

revolver. This lived by day in my hip pocket, but at night I put it

behind my pillow. But when I woke next morning to find us casting

anchor in the bay below rough low hills, which I knew to be the island

of Colonsay, I could find no trace of the revolver. I searched every

inch of the bunk and only shook out feathers from the mouldy ticking. I

remembered perfectly putting the thing behind my head before I went to

sleep, and now it had vanished utterly. Of course I could not advertise

my loss, and I didn't greatly mind it, for this was not a job where I

could do much shooting. But it made me think a good deal about Mr

Gresson. He simply could not suspect me; if he had bagged my gun, as I

was pretty certain he had, it must be because he wanted it for himself

and not that he might disarm me. Every way I argued it I reached the

same conclusion. In Gresson's eyes I must seem as harmless as a child.

saw before me in a crook of the bay a smoking cottage. And, plodding

along by the water's edge, was the bent figure of a man, laden with

nets and lobster pots. Also, beached on the shingle was a boat.



I quickened my pace and overtook the fisherman. He was an old man with

a ragged grey beard, and his rig was seaman's boots and a much-darned

blue jersey. He was deaf, and did not hear me when I hailed him. When

he caught sight of me he never stopped, though he very solemnly

returned my good evening. I fell into step with him, and in his silent

company reached the cottage.



He halted before the door and unslung his burdens. The place was a

two-roomed building with a roof of thatch, and the walls all grown over

with a yellow-flowered creeper. When he had straightened his back, he

looked seaward and at the sky, as if to prospect the weather. Then he

turned on me his gentle, absorbed eyes. 'It will haf been a fine day,

sir. Wass you seeking the road to anywhere?'



'I was seeking a night's lodging,' I said. 'I've had a long tramp on

the hills, and I'd be glad of a chance of not going farther.'



'We will haf no accommodation for a gentleman,' he said gravely.



'I can sleep on the floor, if you can give me a blanket and a bite of

supper.'



'Indeed you will not,' and he smiled slowly. 'But I will ask the wife.

Mary, come here!'



An old woman appeared in answer to his call, a woman whose face was so

old that she seemed like his mother. In highland places one sex ages

quicker than the other.



'This gentleman would like to bide the night. I wass telling him that

we had a poor small house, but he says he will not be minding it.'



She looked at me with the timid politeness that you find only in

outland places.



'We can do our best, indeed, sir. The gentleman can have Colin's bed in

the loft, but he will haf to be doing with plain food. Supper is ready

We entered the cave, and he flung his pack into a corner. 'Last time I

was here,' he said, 'I covered the floor with heather. We must get some

more if we would sleep soft.' In the twilight he was a dim figure, but

he seemed a new man from the one I had last seen in the Moot Hall at

Biggleswick. There was a wiry vigour in his body and a purpose in his

face. What a fool I had been to set him down as no more than a

conceited fidneur!



He went out to the shelf again and sniffed the fresh evening. There was

a wonderful red sky in the west, but in the crevice the shades had

fallen, and only the bright patches at either end told of the sunset.



'Wake,' I said, 'you and I have to understand each other. I'm a friend

of Ivery and I know the meaning of this place. I discovered it by

accident, but I want you to know that I'm heart and soul with you. You

may trust me in tonight's job as if I were Ivery himself.'



He swung round and looked at me sharply. His eyes were hot again, as I

remembered them at our first meeting.



'What do you mean? How much do you know?'



The hammer was going hard in my forehead, and I had to pull myself

together to answer.



'I know that at the end of this crack a message was left last night,

and that someone came out of the sea and picked it up. That someone is

coming again when darkness falls, and there will be another message.'



He had turned his head away. 'You are talking nonsense. No submarine

could land on this coast.'



I could see that he was trying me.



'This morning,' I said, 'I swam in the deep-water inlet below us. It is

the most perfect submarine shelter in Britain.'



He still kept his face from me, looking the way he had come. For a

moment he was silent, and then he spoke in the bitter, drawling voice


Livingstone_, a child's book on sea-shells, and a richly gilt edition

of the poems of one James Montgomery. I offered the selection to Mr

Linklater, who grinned and chose the Missionary Child. 'It's not the

reading I'm accustomed to,' he said. 'I like strong meat--Hall Caine

and Jack London. By the way, how d'ye square this business of yours wi'

the booksellers? When I was in Matheson's there would have been trouble

if we had dealt direct wi' the public like you.'



The confounded fellow started to talk about the details of the book

trade, of which I knew nothing. He wanted to know on what terms we sold

'juveniles', and what discount we gave the big wholesalers, and what

class of book we put out 'on sale'. I didn't understand a word of his

jargon, and I must have given myself away badly, for he asked me

questions about firms of which I had never heard, and I had to make

some kind of answer. I told myself that the donkey was harmless, and

that his opinion of me mattered nothing, but as soon as I decently

could I pretended to be absorbed in the _Pilgrim's Progress_, a gaudy

copy of which was among the samples. It opened at the episode of

Christian and Hopeful in the Enchanted Ground, and in that stuffy

carriage I presently followed the example of Heedless and Too-Bold and

fell sound asleep. I was awakened by the train rumbling over the points

of a little moorland junction. Sunk in a pleasing lethargy, I sat with

my eyes closed, and then covertly took a glance at my companion. He had

abandoned the Missionary Child and was reading a little dun-coloured

book, and marking passages with a pencil. His face was absorbed, and it

was a new face, not the vacant, good-humoured look of the garrulous

bagman, but something shrewd, purposeful, and formidable. I remained

hunched up as if still sleeping, and tried to see what the book was.

But my eyes, good as they are, could make out nothing of the text or

title, except that I had a very strong impression that that book was

not written in the English tongue.



and that therefore the Germans must have landed. I crawled up the last

slope, quite forgetting the pursuit behind me.



And then I'm blessed if I did not look down on a veritable battle.



There were two sets of trenches with barbed wire and all the fixings,

one set filled with troops and the other empty. On these latter shells

were bursting, but there was no sign of life in them. In the other

lines there seemed the better part of two brigades, and the first

trench was stiff with bayonets. My first thought was that Home Forces

had gone dotty, for this kind of show could have no sort of training

value. And then I saw other things--cameras and camera-men on platforms

on the flanks, and men with megaphones behind them on wooden

scaffoldings. One of the megaphones was going full blast all the time.



I saw the meaning of the performance at last. Some movie-merchant had

got a graft with the Government, and troops had been turned out to make

a war film. It occurred to me that if I were mixed up in that push I

might get the cover I was looking for. I scurried down the hill to the

nearest camera-man.



As I ran, the first wave of troops went over the top. They did it

uncommon well, for they entered into the spirit of the thing, and went

over with grim faces and that slow, purposeful lope that I had seen in

my own fellows at Arras. Smoke grenades burst among them, and now and

then some resourceful mountebank would roll over. Altogether it was

about the best show I have ever seen. The cameras clicked, the guns

banged, a background of boy scouts applauded, and the dust rose in

billows to the sky.



But all the same something was wrong. I could imagine that this kind of

business took a good deal of planning from the point of view of the

movie-merchant, for his purpose was not the same as that of the officer

in command. You know how a photographer finicks about and is

dissatisfied with a pose that seems all right to his sitter. I should

Ruff were shot long ago.'



'Two,' he replied, 'but one escaped. Heaven knows how he managed it,

but he disappeared clean out of the world.'



'The plump one who lisped in his speech?'



Macgillivray nodded.



'Well, we're in for it this time. Have you issued instructions?'



'Yes. With luck we shall have our hands on him within an hour. We've

our net round all his haunts.'



'But two hours' start! It's a big handicap, for you're dealing with a

genius.'



'Yet I think we can manage it. Where are you bound for?'



I told him my rooms in Westminster and then to my old flat in Park

Lane. 'The day of disguises is past. In half an hour I'll be Richard

Hannay. It'll be a comfort to get into uniform again. Then I'll look up

Blenkiron.'



He grinned. 'I gather you've had a riotous time. We've had a good many

anxious messages from the north about a certain Mr Brand. I couldn't

discourage our men, for I fancied it might have spoiled your game. I

heard that last night they had lost touch with you in Bradfield, so I

rather expected to see you here today. Efficient body of men the

Scottish police.'



'Especially when they have various enthusiastic amateur helpers.'



'So?' he said. 'Yes, of course. They would have. But I hope presently

to congratulate you on the success of your mission.'



'I'll bet you a pony you don't,' I said.



'I never bet on a professional subject. Why this pessimism?'



'Only that I know our gentleman better than you. I've been twice up

against him. He's the kind of wicked that don't cease from troubling

till they're stone-dead. And even then I'd want to see the body

cremated and take the ashes into mid-ocean and scatter them. I've got a

feeling that he's the biggest thing you or I will ever tackle.'







CHAPTER ELEVEN



The Valley of Humiliation



I collected some baggage and a pile of newly arrived letters from my

you my servant, for you and I have a pretty close bond between us. What

do you say to that?'



This time he looked me full in the face. His troubled eye appraised me

and was satisfied. 'I'm proud to be servant to ye, sirr,' he said. Then

out of his chest came a strangled chuckle, and he forgot his

discipline. 'Losh, but ye're the great lad!' He recovered himself

promptly, saluted, and marched off.



            *       *       *       *       *



The second episode befell during our brief rest after the Polygon Wood,

when I had ridden down the line one afternoon to see a friend in the

Heavy Artillery. I was returning in the drizzle of evening, clanking

along the greasy path between the sad poplars, when I struck a Labour

company repairing the ravages of a Boche strafe that morning. I wasn't

very certain of my road and asked one of the workers. He straightened

himself and saluted, and I saw beneath a disreputable cap the features

of the man who had been with me in the Coolin crevice.



I spoke a word to his sergeant, who fell him out, and he walked a bit

of the way with me.



'Great Scot, Wake, what brought you here?' I asked.



'Same thing as brought you. This rotten war.'



I had dismounted and was walking beside him, and I noticed that his

lean face had lost its pallor and that his eyes were less hot than they

used to be.



'You seem to thrive on it,' I said, for I did not know what to say. A

sudden shyness possessed me. Wake must have gone through some violent

cyclones of feeling before it came to this. He saw what I was thinking

and laughed in his sharp, ironical way.



'Don't flatter yourself you've made a convert. I think as I always

thought. But I came to the conclusion that since the fates had made me

joints of most Picardy houses. There's generally a window that doesn't

latch or a door that doesn't bar. But I tried window after window on

the terrace without result. The heavy green sun-shutters were down over

each, and when I broke the hinges of one there was a long bar within to

hold it firm. I was beginning to think of shinning up a rain-pipe and

trying the second floor, when a shutter I had laid hold on swung back

in my hand. It had been left unfastened, and, kicking the snow from my

boots, I entered a room.



A gleam of moonlight followed me and I saw I was in a big salon with a

polished wood floor and dark lumps of furniture swathed in sheets. I

clicked the bulb at my belt, and the little circle of light showed a

place which had not been dwelt in for years. At the far end was another

door, and as I tiptoed towards it something caught my eye on the

parquet. It was a piece of fresh snow like that which clumps on the

heel of a boot. I had not brought it there. Some other visitor had

passed this way, and not long before me.



Very gently I opened the door and slipped in. In front of me was a pile

of furniture which made a kind of screen, and behind that I halted and

listened. There was somebody in the room. I heard the sound of human

breathing and soft movements; the man, whoever he was, was at the far

end from me, and though there was a dim glow of Moon through a broken

shutter I could see nothing of what he was after. I was beginning to

enjoy myself now. I knew of his presence and he did not know of mine,

and that is the sport of stalking.



An unwary movement of my hand caused the screen to creak. Instantly the

movements ceased and there was utter silence. I held my breath, and

after a second or two the tiny sounds began again. I had a feeling,

though my eyes could not assure me, that the man before me was at work,

he came to see her. That showed the boldness of the man, and his

cleverness, for the whole secret police of France were after him and

they never got within sight or sound. Yet here he was coming openly in

the afternoon to have tea with an English girl. It showed another

thing, which made me blaspheme. A man so resolute and single-hearted in

his job must have been pretty badly in love to take a risk like that.



He came, and he called himself the Capitaine Bommaerts, with a

transport job on the staff of the French G.Q.G. He was on the staff

right enough too. Mary said that when she heard that name she nearly

fell down. He was quite frank with her, and she with him. They are both

peacemakers, ready to break the laws of any land for the sake of a

great ideal. Goodness knows what stuff they talked together. Mary said

she would blush to think of it till her dying day, and I gathered that

on her side it was a mixture of Launcelot Wake at his most pedantic and

schoolgirl silliness.



He came again, and they met often, unbeknown to the decorous Madame de

Mezieres. They walked together in the Bois de Boulogne, and once, with

a beating heart, she motored with him to Auteuil for luncheon. He spoke

of his house in Picardy, and there were moments, I gathered, when he

became the declared lover, to be rebuffed with a hoydenish shyness.

Presently the pace became too hot, and after some anguished arguments

with Bullivant on the long-distance telephone she went off to

Douvecourt to Lady Manorwater's hospital. She went there to escape from

him, but mainly, I think, to have a look--trembling in every limb, mind

you--at the Chateau of Eaucourt Sainte-Anne.



I had only to think of Mary to know just what Joan of Arc was. No man

ever born could have done that kind of thing. It wasn't recklessness.

It was sheer calculating courage.



Then Blenkiron took up the tale. The newspaper we found that Christmas

Eve in the Chateau was of tremendous importance, for Bommaerts had

pricked out in the advertisement the very special second cipher of the

St Anton



Ten days later the porter Joseph Zimmer of Arosa, clad in the tough and

shapeless trousers of his class, but sporting an old velveteen

shooting-coat bequeathed to him by a former German master--speaking the

guttural tongue of the Grisons, and with all his belongings in one

massive rucksack, came out of the little station of St Anton and

blinked in the frosty sunshine. He looked down upon the little old

village beside its icebound lake, but his business was with the new

village of hotels and villas which had sprung up in the last ten years

south of the station. He made some halting inquiries of the station

people, and a cab-driver outside finally directed him to the place he

sought--the cottage of the Widow Summermatter, where resided an English

intern, one Peter Pienaar.



The porter Joseph Zimmer had had a long and roundabout journey. A

fortnight before he had worn the uniform of a British major-general. As

such he had been the inmate of an expensive Paris hotel, till one

morning, in grey tweed clothes and with a limp, he had taken the

Paris-Mediterranean Express with a ticket for an officers' convalescent

home at Cannes. Thereafter he had declined in the social scale. At

Dijon he had been still an Englishman, but at Pontarlier he had become

an American bagman of Swiss parentage, returning to wind up his

father's estate. At Berne he limped excessively, and at Zurich, at a

little back-street hotel, he became frankly the peasant. For he met a

friend there from whom he acquired clothes with that odd rank smell,

far stronger than Harris tweed, which marks the raiment of most Swiss

guides and all Swiss porters. He also acquired a new name and an old

aunt, who a little later received him with open arms and explained to

her friends that he was her brother's son from Arosa who three winters

ago had hurt his leg wood-cutting and had been discharged from the levy.



A kindly Swiss gentleman, as it chanced, had heard of the deserving

Joseph and interested himself to find him employment. The said

philanthropist made a hobby of the French and British prisoners

'The same,' he replied. 'Shake.'



I gripped a gloved and mittened hand which drew me towards the door.







CHAPTER SIXTEEN



I Lie on a Hard Bed



The journalist from Kansas City was a man of action. He wasted no words

in introducing himself or unfolding his plan of campaign. 'You've got

to follow me, mister, and not deviate one inch from my tracks. The

explaining part will come later. There's big business in this shack

tonight.' He unlocked the little door with scarcely a sound, slid the

crust of snow from his boots, and preceded me into a passage as black

as a cellar. The door swung smoothly behind us, and after the sharp

out-of-doors the air smelt stuffy as the inside of a safe.



A hand reached back to make sure that I followed. We appeared to be in

a flagged passage under the main level of the house. My hobnailed boots

slipped on the floor, and I steadied myself on the wall, which seemed

to be of undressed stone. Mr Donne moved softly and assuredly, for he

was better shod for the job than me, and his guiding hand came back

constantly to make sure of my whereabouts.



I remember that I felt just as I had felt when on that August night I

had explored the crevice of the Coolin--the same sense that something

queer was going to happen, the same recklessness and contentment.

Moving a foot at a time with immense care, we came to a right-hand

turning. Two shallow steps led us to another passage, and then my

groping hands struck a blind wall. The American was beside me, and his

mouth was close to my ear.



'Got to crawl now,' he whispered. 'You lead, mister, while I shed this

coat of mine. Eight feet on your stomach and then upright.'



I wriggled through a low tunnel, broad enough to take three men

abreast, but not two feet high. Half-way through I felt suffocated, for

I never liked holes, and I had a momentary anxiety as to what we were

after in this cellar pilgrimage. Presently I smelt free air and got on



'You are only just in time, friend,' said one in German. 'The weather

grows bad and soon the pass will close. Ugh, it is as cold as last

winter on the Tonale. You remember, Giuseppe?'



But in the end they let me move on. For a little I felt my way

gingerly, for on the summit the road had many twists and the snow was

confusing to the eyes. Presently came a sharp drop and I let the

Daimler go. It grew colder, and I shivered a little; the snow became a

wet white fog around the glowing arc of the headlights; and always the

road fell, now in long curves, now in steep short dips, till I was

aware of a glen opening towards the south. From long living in the

wilds I have a kind of sense for landscape without the testimony of the

eyes, and I knew where the ravine narrowed or widened though it was

black darkness.



In spite of my restlessness I had to go slowly, for after the first

rush downhill I realized that, unless I was careful, I might wreck the

car and spoil everything. The surface of the road on the southern slope

of the mountains was a thousand per cent worse than that on the other.

I skidded and side-slipped, and once grazed the edge of the gorge. It

was far more maddening than the climb up, for then it had been a

straight-forward grind with the Daimler doing its utmost, whereas now I

had to hold her back because of my own lack of skill. I reckon that

time crawling down from the summit of the Staub as some of the weariest

hours I ever spent.



Quite suddenly I ran out of the ill weather into a different climate.

The sky was clear above me, and I saw that dawn was very near. The

first pinewoods were beginning, and at last came a straight slope where

I could let the car out. I began to recover my spirits, which had been

very dashed, and to reckon the distance I had still to travel ... And

then, without warning, a new world sprang up around me. Out of the blue

He waited for an answer, and got it in the form of a startled question.



'To Germany? How?'



'It is easy,' he said, smiling. 'The car which is waiting outside is

the first stage of a system of travel which we have perfected.' Then he

told her about the Underground Railway--not as he had told it to me, to

scare, but as a proof of power and forethought.



His manner was perfect. He was respectful, devoted, thoughtful of all

things. He was the suppliant, not the master. He offered her power and

pride, a dazzling career, for he had deserved well of his country, the

devotion of the faithful lover. He would take her to his mother's

house, where she would be welcomed like a princess. I have no doubt he

was sincere, for he had many moods, and the libertine whom he had

revealed to me at the Pink Chalet had given place to the honourable

gentleman. He could play all parts well because he could believe in

himself in them all.



Then he spoke of danger, not so as to slight her courage, but to

emphasize his own thoughtfulness. The world in which she had lived was

crumbling, and he alone could offer a refuge. She felt the steel

gauntlet through the texture of the velvet glove.



All the while she had been furiously thinking, with her chin in her

hand in the old way ... She might refuse to go. He could compel her, no

doubt, for there was no help to be got from the old servants. But it

might be difficult to carry an unwilling woman over the first stages of

the Underground Railway. There might be chances ... Supposing he

accepted her refusal and left her. Then indeed he would be gone for

ever and our game would have closed with a fiasco. The great antagonist

of England would go home rejoicing, taking his sheaves with him.



At this time she had no personal fear of him. So curious a thing is the

human heart that her main preoccupation was with our mission, not with

her own fate. To fail utterly seemed too bitter. Supposing she went

sat its owner, bound and gagged, as others had sat before him on the

same errand. Geordie Hamilton and Amos were his companions. From what

Blenkiron had himself discovered and from the papers seized in the Pink

Chalet I had full details of the road and its mysterious stages. It was

like the journey of a mad dream. In a back street of a little town I

would exchange passwords with a nameless figure and be given

instructions. At a wayside inn at an appointed hour a voice speaking a

thick German would advise that this bridge or that railway crossing had

been cleared. At a hamlet among pine woods an unknown man would clamber

up beside me and take me past a sentry-post. Smooth as clockwork was

the machine, till in the dawn of a spring morning I found myself

dropping into a broad valley through little orchards just beginning to

blossom, and I knew that I was in France. After that, Blenkiron's own

arrangements began, and soon I was drinking coffee with a young

lieutenant of Chasseurs, and had taken the gag from Ivery's mouth. The

bluecoats looked curiously at the man in the green ulster whose face

was the colour of clay and who lit cigarette from cigarette with a

shaky hand.



The lieutenant rang up a General of Division who knew all about us. At

his headquarters I explained my purpose, and he telegraphed to an Army

Headquarters for a permission which was granted. It was not for nothing

that in January I had seen certain great personages in Paris, and that

Blenkiron had wired ahead of me to prepare the way. Here I handed over

Ivery and his guard, for I wanted them to proceed to Amiens under

French supervision, well knowing that the men of that great army are

not used to let slip what they once hold.



It was a morning of clear spring sunlight when we breakfasted in that

little red-roofed town among vineyards with a shining river looping at

our feet. The General of Division was an Algerian veteran with a brush

of grizzled hair, whose eye kept wandering to a map on the wall where

pins and stretched thread made a spider's web.

the job.'



'The very fellow,' he said, and he wrote an order. 'Take this to Jacks

and he'll fix up a temporary commission. Your man can find a uniform

somewhere in Amiens.'



After that I went to the detail camp and found that Ivery had duly

arrived.



'The prisoner has given no trouble, sirr,' Hamilton reported. 'But he's

a wee thing peevish. They're saying that the Gairmans is gettin' on

fine, and I was tellin' him that he should be proud of his ain folk.

But he wasn't verra weel pleased.'



Three days had wrought a transformation in Ivery. That face, once so

cool and capable, was now sharpened like a hunted beast's. His

imagination was preying on him and I could picture its torture. He, who

had been always at the top directing the machine, was now only a cog in

it. He had never in his life been anything but powerful; now he was

impotent. He was in a hard, unfamiliar world, in the grip of something

which he feared and didn't understand, in the charge of men who were in

no way amenable to his persuasiveness. It was like a proud and bullying

manager suddenly forced to labour in a squad of navvies, and worse, for

there was the gnawing physical fear of what was coming.



He made an appeal to me.



'Do the English torture their prisoners?' he asked. 'You have beaten

me. I own it, and I plead for mercy. I will go on my knees if you like.

I am not afraid of death--in my own way.'



'Few people are afraid of death--in their own way.'



'Why do you degrade me? I am a gentleman.'



'Not as we define the thing,' I said.



His jaw dropped. 'What are you going to do with me?' he quavered.



'You have been a soldier,' I said. 'You are going to see a little

fighting--from the ranks. There will be no brutality, you will be armed

if you want to defend yourself, you will have the same chance of

survival as the men around you. You may have heard that your countrymen

two wings--the old Boche plan which crops up in every fight. He left

our centre at first pretty well alone, and thrust along the river bank

and to the wood of La Bruyere, where we linked up with the division on

our right. Lefroy was in the first area, and Masterton in the second,

and for three hours it was as desperate a business as I have ever faced

... The improvised switch went, and more and more of the forward zone

disappeared. It was a hot, clear spring afternoon, and in the open

fighting the enemy came on like troops at manoeuvres. On the left they

got into the battle-zone, and I can see yet Lefroy's great figure

leading a counter-attack in person, his face all puddled with blood

from a scalp wound ...



I would have given my soul to be in two places at once, but I had to

risk our left and keep close to Masterton, who needed me most. The wood

of La Bruyere was the maddest sight. Again and again the Boche was

almost through it. You never knew where he was, and most of the

fighting there was duels between machine-gun parties. Some of the enemy

got round behind us, and only a fine performance of a company of

Cheshires saved a complete breakthrough.



As for Lefroy, I don't know how he stuck it out, and he doesn't know

himself, for he was galled all the time by that accursed flanking fire.

I got a note about half past four saying that Wake had crossed the

river, but it was some weary hours after that before the fire

slackened. I tore back and forward between my wings, and every time I

went north I expected to find that Lefroy had broken. But by some

miracle he held. The Boches were in his battle-zone time and again, but

he always flung them out. I have a recollection of Blenkiron, stark

mad, encouraging his Americans with strange tongues. Once as I passed

him I saw that he had his left arm tied up. His blackened face grinned

at me. 'This bit of landscape's mighty unsafe for democracy,' he

croaked. 'For the love of Mike get your guns on to those devils across

