    22 THE BALLET OF LA MERLAISON

    23 THE RENDEZVOUS

    24 THE PAVILION

    25 PORTHOS

    26 ARAMIS AND HIS THESIS

    27 THE WIFE OF ATHOS

    28 THE RETURN

    29 HUNTING FOR THE EQUIPMENTS

    30 D’ARTAGNAN AND THE ENGLISHMAN

    31 ENGLISH AND FRENCH

    32 A PROCURATOR’S DINNER

    33 SOUBRETTE AND MISTRESS

    34 IN WHICH THE EQUIPMENT OF ARAMIS AND PORTHOS IS TREATED OF

    35 A GASCON A MATCH FOR CUPID

    36 DREAM OF VENGEANCE

    37 MILADY’S SECRET

    38 HOW, WITHOUT INCOMMDING HIMSELF, ATHOS PROCURES HIS EQUIPMENT

    39 A VISION

    40 A TERRIBLE VISION

    41 THE SEIGE OF LA ROCHELLE

    42 THE ANJOU WINE

    43 THE SIGN OF THE RED DOVECOT

    44 THE UTILITY OF STOVEPIPES

    45 A CONJUGAL SCENE

    46 THE BASTION SAINT-GERVAIS

    47 THE COUNCIL OF THE MUSKETEERS

    48 A FAMILY AFFAIR

    49 FATALITY

    50 CHAT BETWEEN BROTHER AND SISTER

    51 OFFICER

    52 CAPTIVITY: THE FIRST DAY

    53 CAPTIVITY: THE SECOND DAY

    54 CAPTIVITY: THE THIRD DAY

    55 CAPTIVITY: THE FOURTH DAY

    56 CAPTIVITY: THE FIFTH DAY

    57 MEANS FOR CLASSICAL TRAGEDY

    58 ESCAPE

    59 WHAT TOOK PLACE AT PORTSMOUTH AUGUST 23, 1628

    60 IN FRANCE

    61 THE CARMELITE CONVENT AT BETHUNE

    62 TWO VARIETIES OF DEMONS




“You know not the subject of their conversation?”



“He gave her a box, told her not to open it except in London.”



“Was this woman English?”



“He called her Milady.”



“It is he; it must be he!” murmured Treville. “I believed him still at

Brussels.”



“Oh, sir, if you know who this man is,” cried d’Artagnan, “tell me who

he is, and whence he is. I will then release you from all your

promises--even that of procuring my admission into the Musketeers; for

before everything, I wish to avenge myself.”



“Beware, young man!” cried Treville. “If you see him coming on one side

of the street, pass by on the other. Do not cast yourself against such a

rock; he would break you like glass.”



“That will not prevent me,” replied d’Artagnan, “if ever I find him.”



“In the meantime,” said Treville, “seek him not--if I have a right to

advise you.”



All at once the captain stopped, as if struck by a sudden suspicion.

This great hatred which the young traveler manifested so loudly for this

man, who--a rather improbable thing--had stolen his father’s letter from

him--was there not some perfidy concealed under this hatred? Might not

this young man be sent by his Eminence? Might he not have come for the

purpose of laying a snare for him? This pretended d’Artagnan--was he not

an emissary of the cardinal, whom the cardinal sought to introduce into

Treville’s house, to place near him, to win his confidence, and

afterward to ruin him as had been done in a thousand other instances? He

fixed his eyes upon d’Artagnan even more earnestly than before. He was

moderately reassured, however, by the aspect of that countenance, full

of astute intelligence and affected humility. “I know he is a Gascon,”

reflected he, “but he may be one for the cardinal as well as for me. Let

us try him.”



“My friend,” said he, slowly, “I wish, as the son of an ancient

friend--for I consider this story of the lost letter perfectly true--I

wish, I say, in order to repair the coldness you may have remarked in my

this?”



“And who told you this fine story, sire?” asked Treville, quietly.



“Who has told me this fine story, monsieur? Who should it be but he who

watches while I sleep, who labors while I amuse myself, who conducts

everything at home and abroad--in France as in Europe?”



“Your Majesty probably refers to God,” said M. de Treville; “for I know

no one except God who can be so far above your Majesty.”



“No, monsieur; I speak of the prop of the state, of my only servant, of

my only friend--of the cardinal.”



“His Eminence is not his holiness, sire.”



“What do you mean by that, monsieur?”



“That it is only the Pope who is infallible, and that this infallibility

does not extend to cardinals.”



“You mean to say that he deceives me; you mean to say that he betrays

me? You accuse him, then? Come, speak; avow freely that you accuse him!”



“No, sire, but I say that he deceives himself. I say that he is

ill-informed. I say that he has hastily accused your Majesty’s

Musketeers, toward whom he is unjust, and that he has not obtained his

information from good sources.”



“The accusation comes from Monsieur de la Tremouille, from the duke

himself. What do you say to that?”



“I might answer, sire, that he is too deeply interested in the question

to be a very impartial witness; but so far from that, sire, I know the

duke to be a royal gentleman, and I refer the matter to him--but upon

one condition, sire.”



“What?”



“It is that your Majesty will make him come here, will interrogate him

yourself, TETE-A-TETE, without witnesses, and that I shall see your

Majesty as soon as you have seen the duke.”



“What, then! You will bind yourself,” cried the king, “by what Monsieur

de la Tremouille shall say?”



“Yes, sire.”



“You will accept his judgment?”



“Undoubtedly.”



“And you will submit to the reparation he may require?”



“Certainly.”



swords, and breaking of furniture. A moment after, those who, surprised

by this tumult, had gone to their windows to learn the cause of it, saw

the door open, and four men, clothed in black, not COME out of it, but

FLY, like so many frightened crows, leaving on the ground and on the

corners of the furniture, feathers from their wings; that is to say,

patches of their clothes and fragments of their cloaks.



D’Artagnan was conqueror--without much effort, it must be confessed, for

only one of the officers was armed, and even he defended himself for

form’s sake. It is true that the three others had endeavored to knock

the young man down with chairs, stools, and crockery; but two or three

scratches made by the Gascon’s blade terrified them. Ten minutes

sufficed for their defeat, and d’Artagnan remained master of the field

of battle.



The neighbors who had opened their windows, with the coolness peculiar

to the inhabitants of Paris in these times of perpetual riots and

disturbances, closed them again as soon as they saw the four men in

black flee--their instinct telling them that for the time all was over.

Besides, it began to grow late, and then, as today, people went to bed

early in the quarter of the Luxembourg.



On being left alone with Mme. Bonacieux, d’Artagnan turned toward her;

the poor woman reclined where she had been left, half-fainting upon an

armchair. D’Artagnan examined her with a rapid glance.



She was a charming woman of twenty-five or twenty-six years, with dark

hair, blue eyes, and a nose slightly turned up, admirable teeth, and a

complexion marbled with rose and opal. There, however, ended the signs

which might have confounded her with a lady of rank. The hands were

white, but without delicacy; the feet did not bespeak the woman of

quality. Happily, d’Artagnan was not yet acquainted with such niceties.



While d’Artagnan was examining Mme. Bonacieux, and was, as we have said,

close to her, he saw on the ground a fine cambric handkerchief, which he

picked up, as was his habit, and at the corner of which he recognized


The love with which his young wife had inspired him was a secondary

sentiment, and was not strong enough to contend with the primitive

feelings we have just enumerated. Bonacieux indeed reflected on what had

just been said to him.



“But, Monsieur Commissary,” said he, calmly, “believe that I know and

appreciate, more than anybody, the merit of the incomparable eminence by

whom we have the honor to be governed.”



“Indeed?” asked the commissary, with an air of doubt. “If that is really

so, how came you in the Bastille?”



“How I came there, or rather why I am there,” replied Bonacieux, “that

is entirely impossible for me to tell you, because I don’t know myself;

but to a certainty it is not for having, knowingly at least, disobliged

Monsieur the Cardinal.”



“You must, nevertheless, have committed a crime, since you are here and

are accused of high treason.”



“Of high treason!” cried Bonacieux, terrified; “of high treason! How is

it possible for a poor mercer, who detests Huguenots and who abhors

Spaniards, to be accused of high treason? Consider, monsieur, the thing

is absolutely impossible.”



“Monsieur Bonacieux,” said the commissary, looking at the accused as if

his little eyes had the faculty of reading to the very depths of hearts,

“you have a wife?”



“Yes, monsieur,” replied the mercer, in a tremble, feeling that it was

at this point affairs were likely to become perplexing; “that is to say,

I HAD one.”



“What, you ‘had one’? What have you done with her, then, if you have her

no longer?”



“They have abducted her, monsieur.”



“They have abducted her? Ah!”



Bonacieux inferred from this “Ah” that the affair grew more and more

intricate.



“They have abducted her,” added the commissary; “and do you know the man

who has committed this deed?”



“I think I know him.”



“Who is he?”



“Remember that I affirm nothing, Monsieur the Commissary, and that I

only suspect.”



“Whom do you suspect? Come, answer freely.”




“I am a faithful subject of the king, madame, and all that his Majesty

commands I shall do.”



“Well, it is true!” said Anne of Austria; “and the spies of the cardinal

have served him faithfully. I have written a letter today; that letter

is not yet gone. The letter is here.” And the queen laid her beautiful

hand on her bosom.



“Then give me that letter, madame,” said the chancellor.



“I will give it to none but the king, monsieur,” said Anne.



“If the king had desired that the letter should be given to him, madame,

he would have demanded it of you himself. But I repeat to you, I am

charged with reclaiming it; and if you do not give it up--”



“Well?”



“He has, then, charged me to take it from you.”



“How! What do you say?”



“That my orders go far, madame; and that I am authorized to seek for the

suspected paper, even on the person of your Majesty.”



“What horror!” cried the queen.



“Be kind enough, then, madame, to act more compliantly.”



“The conduct is infamously violent! Do you know that, monsieur?”



“The king commands it, madame; excuse me.”



“I will not suffer it! No, no, I would rather die!” cried the queen, in

whom the imperious blood of Spain and Austria began to rise.



The chancellor made a profound reverence. Then, with the intention quite

patent of not drawing back a foot from the accomplishment of the

commission with which he was charged, and as the attendant of an

executioner might have done in the chamber of torture, he approached

Anne of Austria, from whose eyes at the same instant sprang tears of

rage.



The queen was, as we have said, of great beauty. The commission might

well be called delicate; and the king had reached, in his jealousy of

Buckingham, the point of not being jealous of anyone else.



Without doubt the chancellor Seguier looked about at that moment for the

rope of the famous bell; but not finding it he summoned his resolution,



“Ah, ah!” said Porthos, “it appears there’s something fresh here.”



“Yes, we are going--” said Aramis.



“To what country?” demanded Porthos.



“My faith! I don’t know much about it,” said Athos. “Ask d’Artagnan.”



“To London, gentlemen,” said d’Artagnan.



“To London!” cried Porthos; “and what the devil are we going to do in

London?”



“That is what I am not at liberty to tell you, gentlemen; you must trust

to me.”



“But in order to go to London,” added Porthos, “money is needed, and I

have none.”



“Nor I,” said Aramis.



“Nor I,” said Athos.



“I have,” replied d’Artagnan, pulling out his treasure from his pocket,

and placing it on the table. “There are in this bag three hundred

pistoles. Let each take seventy-five; that is enough to take us to

London and back. Besides, make yourselves easy; we shall not all arrive

at London.”



“Why so?”



“Because, in all probability, some one of us will be left on the road.”



“Is this, then, a campaign upon which we are now entering?”



“One of a most dangerous kind, I give you notice.”



“Ah! But if we do risk being killed,” said Porthos, “at least I should

like to know what for.”



“You would be all the wiser,” said Athos.



“And yet,” said Aramis, “I am somewhat of Porthos’s opinion.”



“Is the king accustomed to give you such reasons? No. He says to you

jauntily, ‘Gentlemen, there is fighting going on in Gascony or in

Flanders; go and fight,’ and you go there. Why? You need give yourselves

no more uneasiness about this.”



“d’Artagnan is right,” said Athos; “here are our three leaves of absence

which came from Monsieur de Treville, and here are three hundred

pistoles which came from I don’t know where. So let us go and get killed

where we are told to go. Is life worth the trouble of so many questions?

D’Artagnan, I am ready to follow you.”



“And I also,” said Porthos.


“Exactly so,” said d’Artagnan; and nodding to Planchet, he went out.



M Bonacieux was at his door. D’Artagnan’s intention was to go out

without speaking to the worthy mercer; but the latter made so polite and

friendly a salutation that his tenant felt obliged, not only to stop,

but to enter into conversation with him.



Besides, how is it possible to avoid a little condescension toward a

husband whose pretty wife has appointed a meeting with you that same

evening at St. Cloud, opposite D’Estrees’s pavilion? D’Artagnan

approached him with the most amiable air he could assume.



The conversation naturally fell upon the incarceration of the poor man.

M. Bonacieux, who was ignorant that d’Artagnan had overheard his

conversation with the stranger of Meung, related to his young tenant the

persecutions of that monster, M. de Laffemas, whom he never ceased to

designate, during his account, by the title of the “cardinal’s

executioner,” and expatiated at great length upon the Bastille, the

bolts, the wickets, the dungeons, the gratings, the instruments of

torture.



D’Artagnan listened to him with exemplary complaisance, and when he had

finished said, “And Madame Bonacieux, do you know who carried her

off?--For I do not forget that I owe to that unpleasant circumstance the

good fortune of having made your acquaintance.”



“Ah!” said Bonacieux, “they took good care not to tell me that; and my

wife, on her part, has sworn to me by all that’s sacred that she does

not know. But you,” continued M. Bonacieux, in a tine of perfect good

fellowship, “what has become of you all these days? I have not seen you

nor your friends, and I don’t think you could gather all that dust that

I saw Planchet brush off your boots yesterday from the pavement of

Paris.”



“You are right, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux, my friends and I have been

on a little journey.”



“Far from here?”



“Oh, Lord, no! About forty leagues only. We went to take Monsieur Athos

to the waters of Forges, where my friends still remain.”



“And you have returned, have you not?” replied M. Bonacieux, giving to

being in constant fear of being forced from that position, I am armed to

the teeth.”



“And yet,” said d’Artagnan, laughing, “it appears to me that from time

to time you must make SORTIES.” And he again pointed to the bottles and

the stewpans.



“Not I, unfortunately!” said Porthos. “This miserable strain confines me

to my bed; but Mousqueton forages, and brings in provisions. Friend

Mousqueton, you see that we have a reinforcement, and we must have an

increase of supplies.”



“Mousqueton,” said d’Artagnan, “you must render me a service.”



“What, monsieur?”



“You must give your recipe to Planchet. I may be besieged in my turn,

and I shall not be sorry for him to be able to let me enjoy the same

advantages with which you gratify your master.”



“Lord, monsieur! There is nothing more easy,” said Mousqueton, with a

modest air. “One only needs to be sharp, that’s all. I was brought up in

the country, and my father in his leisure time was something of a

poacher.”



“And what did he do the rest of his time?”



“Monsieur, he carried on a trade which I have always thought

satisfactory.”



“Which?”



“As it was a time of war between the Catholics and the Huguenots, and as

he saw the Catholics exterminate the Huguenots and the Huguenots

exterminate the Catholics--all in the name of religion--he adopted a

mixed belief which permitted him to be sometimes Catholic, sometimes a

Huguenot. Now, he was accustomed to walk with his fowling piece on his

shoulder, behind the hedges which border the roads, and when he saw a

Catholic coming alone, the Protestant religion immediately prevailed in

his mind. He lowered his gun in the direction of the traveler; then,

when he was within ten paces of him, he commenced a conversation which

almost always ended by the traveler’s abandoning his purse to save his

life. It goes without saying that when he saw a Huguenot coming, he felt

himself filled with such ardent Catholic zeal that he could not

understand how, a quarter of an hour before, he had been able to have


will have pity on me.”



“Ah, if you speak in that way,” said Athos, “you will break my heart,

and the tears will flow from my eyes as the wine flowed from the cask.

We are not such devils as we appear to be. Come hither, and let us

talk.”



The host approached with hesitation.



“Come hither, I say, and don’t be afraid,” continued Athos. “At the very

moment when I was about to pay you, I had placed my purse on the table.”



“Yes, monsieur.”



“That purse contained sixty pistoles; where is it?”



“Deposited with the justice; they said it was bad money.”



“Very well; get me my purse back and keep the sixty pistoles.”



“But Monseigneur knows very well that justice never lets go that which

it once lays hold of. If it were bad money, there might be some hopes;

but unfortunately, those were all good pieces.”



“Manage the matter as well as you can, my good man; it does not concern

me, the more so as I have not a livre left.”



“Come,” said d’Artagnan, “let us inquire further. Athos’s horse, where

is that?”



“In the stable.”



“How much is it worth?”



“Fifty pistoles at most.”



“It’s worth eighty. Take it, and there ends the matter.”



“What,” cried Athos, “are you selling my horse--my Bajazet? And pray

upon what shall I make my campaign; upon Grimaud?”



“I have brought you another,” said d’Artagnan.



“Another?”



“And a magnificent one!” cried the host.



“Well, since there is another finer and younger, why, you may take the

old one; and let us drink.”



“What?” asked the host, quite cheerful again.



“Some of that at the bottom, near the laths. There are twenty-five

bottles of it left; all the rest were broken by my fall. Bring six of

them.”



“Why, this man is a cask!” said the host, aside. “If he only remains

here a fortnight, and pays for what he drinks, I shall soon re-establish



“A person who takes more interest in you than she is willing to confess

wishes to know on what day it will suit you to walk in the forest?

Tomorrow, at the Hotel Field of the Cloth of Gold, a lackey in black and

red will wait for your reply.”



“Oh!” said d’Artagnan, “this is rather warm; it appears that Milady and

I are anxious about the health of the same person. Well, Planchet, how

is the good Monsieur de Wardes? He is not dead, then?”



“No, monsieur, he is as well as a man can be with four sword wounds in

his body; for you, without question, inflicted four upon the dear

gentleman, and he is still very weak, having lost almost all his blood.

As I said, monsieur, Lubin did not know me, and told me our adventure

from one end to the other.”



“Well done, Planchet! you are the king of lackeys. Now jump onto your

horse, and let us overtake the carriage.”



This did not take long. At the end of five minutes they perceived the

carriage drawn up by the roadside; a cavalier, richly dressed, was close

to the door.



The conversation between Milady and the cavalier was so animated that

d’Artagnan stopped on the other side of the carriage without anyone but

the pretty SOUBRETTE perceiving his presence.



The conversation took place in English--a language which d’Artagnan

could not understand; but by the accent the young man plainly saw that

the beautiful Englishwoman was in a great rage. She terminated it by an

action which left no doubt as to the nature of this conversation; this

was a blow with her fan, applied with such force that the little

feminine weapon flew into a thousand pieces.



The cavalier laughed aloud, which appeared to exasperate Milady still

more.



D’Artagnan thought this was the moment to interfere. He approached the

other door, and taking off his hat respectfully, said, “Madame, will you

permit me to offer you my services? It appears to me that this cavalier

has made you very angry. Speak one word, madame, and I take upon myself


the same time he did; but his quickness was not of much use to him. At

the hint from the mendicant his master made him a sign to retire, and he

was obliged to obey.



Bazin gone, the mendicant cast a rapid glance around him in order to be

sure that nobody could either see or hear him, and opening his ragged

vest, badly held together by a leather strap, he began to rip the upper

part of his doublet, from which he drew a letter.



Aramis uttered a cry of joy at the sight of the seal, kissed the

superscription with an almost religious respect, and opened the epistle,

which contained what follows:



“My Friend, it is the will of fate that we should be still for some time

separated; but the delightful days of youth are not lost beyond return.

Perform your duty in camp; I will do mine elsewhere. Accept that which

the bearer brings you; make the campaign like a handsome true gentleman,

and think of me, who kisses tenderly your black eyes.



“Adieu; or rather, AU REVOIR.”



The mendicant continued to rip his garments; and drew from amid his rags

a hundred and fifty Spanish double pistoles, which he laid down on the

table; then he opened the door, bowed, and went out before the young

man, stupefied by his letter, had ventured to address a word to him.



Aramis then reperused the letter, and perceived a postscript:



PS. You may behave politely to the bearer, who is a count and a grandee

of Spain!



“Golden dreams!” cried Aramis. “Oh, beautiful life! Yes, we are young;

yes, we shall yet have happy days! My love, my blood, my life! all, all,

all, are thine, my adored mistress!”



And he kissed the letter with passion, without even vouchsafing a look

at the gold which sparkled on the table.



Bazin scratched at the door, and as Aramis had no longer any reason to

exclude him, he bade him come in.



Bazin was stupefied at the sight of the gold, and forgot that he came to

pour out against you. Then I thought she would remember it was through

my chamber you had penetrated hers, and that then she would suppose I

was your accomplice; so I took what little money I had and the best of

my things, and I got away.



“Poor dear girl! But what can I do with you? I am going away the day

after tomorrow.”



“Do what you please, Monsieur Chevalier. Help me out of Paris; help me

out of France!”



“I cannot take you, however, to the siege of La Rochelle,” aid

d’Artagnan.



“No; but you can place me in one of the provinces with some lady of your

acquaintance--in your own country, for instance.”



“My dear little love! In my country the ladies do without chambermaids.

But stop! I can manage your business for you. Planchet, go and find

Aramis. Request him to come here directly. We have something very

important to say to him.”



“I understand,” said Athos; “but why not Porthos? I should have thought

that his duchess--”



“Oh, Porthos’s duchess is dressed by her husband’s clerks,” said

d’Artagnan, laughing. “Besides, Kitty would not like to live in the Rue

aux Ours. Isn’t it so, Kitty?”



“I do not care where I live,” said Kitty, “provided I am well concealed,

and nobody knows where I am.”



“Meanwhile, Kitty, when we are about to separate, and you are no longer

jealous of me--”



“Monsieur Chevalier, far off or near,” said Kitty, “I shall always love

you.”



“Where the devil will constancy niche itself next?” murmured Athos.



“And I, also,” said d’Artagnan, “I also. I shall always love you; be

sure of that. But now answer me. I attach great importance to the

question I am about to put to you. Did you never hear talk of a young

woman who was carried off one night?”



“There, now! Oh, Monsieur Chevalier, do you love that woman still?”



“No, no; it is one of my friends who loves her--Monsieur Athos, this

gentleman here.”



“I?” cried Athos, with an accent like that of a man who perceives he is


One of the two Guardsmen was engaged that evening, and another the next,

so the meeting was fixed for the day after that.



D’Artagnan, on his return, sent the twelve bottles of wine to the

refreshment room of the Guards, with strict orders that great care

should be taken of it; and then, on the day appointed, as the dinner was

fixed for midday d’Artagnan sent Planchet at nine in the morning to

assist in preparing everything for the entertainment.



Planchet, very proud of being raised to the dignity of landlord, thought

he would make all ready, like an intelligent man; and with this view

called in the assistance of the lackey of one of his master’s guests,

named Fourreau, and the false soldier who had tried to kill d’Artagnan

and who, belonging to no corps, had entered into the service of

d’Artagnan, or rather of Planchet, after d’Artagnan had saved his life.



The hour of the banquet being come, the two guards arrived, took their

places, and the dishes were arranged on the table. Planchet waited,

towel on arm; Fourreau uncorked the bottles; and Brisemont, which was

the name of the convalescent, poured the wine, which was a little shaken

by its journey, carefully into decanters. Of this wine, the first bottle

being a little thick at the bottom, Brisemont poured the lees into a

glass, and d’Artagnan desired him to drink it, for the poor devil had

not yet recovered his strength.



The guests having eaten the soup, were about to lift the first glass of

wine to their lips, when all at once the cannon sounded from Fort Louis

and Fort Neuf. The Guardsmen, imagining this to be caused by some

unexpected attack, either of the besieged or the English, sprang to

their swords. D’Artagnan, not less forward than they, did likewise, and

all ran out, in order to repair to their posts.



But scarcely were they out of the room before they were made aware of

the cause of this noise. Cries of “Live the king! Live the cardinal!”

resounded on every side, and the drums were beaten in all directions.



In short, the king, impatient, as has been said, had come by forced



“Thirty-five minutes after seven,” said Athos, “by which you perceive I

am five minutes faster than you.”



And bowing to all the astonished persons present, the young men took the

road to the bastion St. Gervais, followed by Grimaud, who carried the

basket, ignorant of where he was going but in the passive obedience

which Athos had taught him not even thinking of asking.



As long as they were within the circle of the camp, the four friends did

not exchange one word; besides, they were followed by the curious, who,

hearing of the wager, were anxious to know how they would come out of

it. But when once they passed the line of circumvallation and found

themselves in the open plain, d’Artagnan, who was completely ignorant of

what was going forward, thought it was time to demand an explanation.



“And now, my dear Athos,” said he, “do me the kindness to tell me where

we are going?”



“Why, you see plainly enough we are going to the bastion.”



“But what are we going to do there?”



“You know well that we go to breakfast there.”



“But why did we not breakfast at the Parpaillot?”



“Because we have very important matters to communicate to one another,

and it was impossible to talk five minutes in that inn without being

annoyed by all those importunate fellows, who keep coming in, saluting

you, and addressing you. Here at least,” said Athos, pointing to the

bastion, “they will not come and disturb us.”



“It appears to me,” said d’Artagnan, with that prudence which allied

itself in him so naturally with excessive bravery, “that we could have

found some retired place on the downs or the seashore.”



“Where we should have been seen all four conferring together, so that at

the end of a quarter of an hour the cardinal would have been informed by

his spies that we were holding a council.”



“Yes,” said Aramis, “Athos is right: ANIMADVERTUNTUR IN DESERTIS.”



“A desert would not have been amiss,” said Porthos; “but it behooved us

to find it.”


from the deck; he may have traveled so fast against the wind as to have

brought on a violent catarrh. Eh, gentlemen, let us reckon upon

accidents! Life is a chaplet of little miseries which the philosopher

counts with a smile. Be philosophers, as I am, gentlemen; sit down at

the table and let us drink. Nothing makes the future look so bright as

surveying it through a glass of chambertin.”



“That’s all very well,” replied d’Artagnan; “but I am tired of fearing

when I open a fresh bottle that the wine may come from the cellar of

Milady.”



“You are very fastidious,” said Athos; “such a beautiful woman!”



“A woman of mark!” said Porthos, with his loud laugh.



Athos started, passed his hand over his brow to remove the drops of

perspiration that burst forth, and rose in his turn with a nervous

movement he could not repress.



The day, however, passed away; and the evening came on slowly, but

finally it came. The bars were filled with drinkers. Athos, who had

pocketed his share of the diamond, seldom quit the Parpaillot. He had

found in M. de Busigny, who, by the by, had given them a magnificent

dinner, a partner worthy of his company. They were playing together, as

usual, when seven o’clock sounded; the patrol was heard passing to

double the posts. At half past seven the retreat was sounded.



“We are lost,” said d’Artagnan, in the ear of Athos.



“You mean to say we have lost,” said Athos, quietly, drawing four

pistoles from his pocket and throwing them upon the table. “Come,

gentlemen,” said he, “they are beating the tattoo. Let us to bed!”



And Athos went out of the Parpaillot, followed by d’Artagnan. Aramis

came behind, giving his arm to Porthos. Aramis mumbled verses to

himself, and Porthos from time to time pulled a hair or two from his

mustache, in sign of despair.



But all at once a shadow appeared in the darkness the outline of which

was familiar to d’Artagnan, and a well-known voice said, “Monsieur, I

have brought your cloak; it is chilly this evening.”

dreaming of the crown of flowers she was to wear on her brow at the next

festival.









53 CAPTIVITY: THE SECOND DAY





Milady dreamed that she at length had d’Artagnan in her power, that she

was present at his execution; and it was the sight of his odious blood,

flowing beneath the ax of the headsman, which spread that charming smile

upon her lips.



She slept as a prisoner sleeps, rocked by his first hope.



In the morning, when they entered her chamber she was still in bed.

Felton remained in the corridor. He brought with him the woman of whom

he had spoken the evening before, and who had just arrived; this woman

entered, and approaching Milady’s bed, offered her services.



Milady was habitually pale; her complexion might therefore deceive a

person who saw her for the first time.



“I am in a fever,” said she; “I have not slept a single instant during

all this long night. I suffer horribly. Are you likely to be more humane

to me than others were yesterday? All I ask is permission to remain

abed.”



“Would you like to have a physician called?” said the woman.



Felton listened to this dialogue without speaking a word.



Milady reflected that the more people she had around her the more she

would have to work upon, and Lord de Winter would redouble his watch.

Besides, the physician might declare the ailment feigned; and Milady,

after having lost the first trick, was not willing to lose the second.



“Go and fetch a physician?” said she. “What could be the good of that?

These gentlemen declared yesterday that my illness was a comedy; it

would be just the same today, no doubt--for since yesterday evening they

have had plenty of time to send for a doctor.”



“Then,” said Felton, who became impatient, “say yourself, madame, what

treatment you wish followed.”



“Eh, how can I tell? My God! I know that I suffer, that’s all. Give me

anything you like, it is of little consequence.”


“When the hour of breakfast came, therefore, I did not hesitate to eat

and drink. I had determined to make believe sup, but to eat nothing. I

was forced, then, to combat the fast of the evening with the nourishment

of the morning.



“Only I concealed a glass of water, which remained after my breakfast,

thirst having been the chief of my sufferings when I remained

forty-eight hours without eating or drinking.



“The day passed away without having any other influence on me than to

strengthen the resolution I had formed; only I took care that my face

should not betray the thoughts of my heart, for I had no doubt I was

watched. Several times, even, I felt a smile on my lips. Felton, I dare

not tell you at what idea I smiled; you would hold me in horror--”



“Go on! go on!” said Felton; “you see plainly that I listen, and that I

am anxious to know the end.”



“Evening came; the ordinary events took place. During the darkness, as

before, my supper was brought. Then the lamp was lighted, and I sat down

to table. I only ate some fruit. I pretended to pour out water from the

jug, but I only drank that which I had saved in my glass. The

substitution was made so carefully that my spies, if I had any, could

have no suspicion of it.



“After supper I exhibited the same marks of languor as on the preceding

evening; but this time, as I yielded to fatigue, or as if I had become

familiarized with danger, I dragged myself toward my bed, let my robe

fall, and lay down.



“I found my knife where I had placed it, under my pillow, and while

feigning to sleep, my hand grasped the handle of it convulsively.



“Two hours passed away without anything fresh happening. Oh, my God! who

could have said so the evening before? I began to fear that he would not

come.



“At length I saw the lamp rise softly, and disappear in the depths of

the ceiling; my chamber was filled with darkness and obscurity, but I

when this took place, rejoiced greatly at this relaxation; but the other

four cursed it heartily. D’Artagnan, in particular, had a perpetual

buzzing in his ears, which Porthos explained thus: “A very great lady

has told me that this means that somebody is talking of you somewhere.”



At length the escort passed through Paris on the twenty-third, in the

night. The king thanked M. de Treville, and permitted him to distribute

furloughs for four days, on condition that the favored parties should

not appear in any public place, under penalty of the Bastille.



The first four furloughs granted, as may be imagined, were to our four

friends. Still further, Athos obtained of M. de Treville six days

instead of four, and introduced into these six days two more nights--for

they set out on the twenty-fourth at five o’clock in the evening, and as

a further kindness M. de Treville post-dated the leave to the morning of

the twenty-fifth.



“Good Lord!” said d’Artagnan, who, as we have often said, never stumbled

at anything. “It appears to me that we are making a great trouble of a

very simple thing. In two days, and by using up two or three horses

(that’s nothing; I have plenty of money), I am at Bethune. I present my

letter from the queen to the superior, and I bring back the dear

treasure I go to seek--not into Lorraine, not into Belgium, but to

Paris, where she will be much better concealed, particularly while the

cardinal is at La Rochelle. Well, once returned from the country, half

by the protection of her cousin, half through what we have personally

done for her, we shall obtain from the queen what we desire. Remain,

then, where you are, and do not exhaust yourselves with useless fatigue.

Myself and Planchet are all that such a simple expedition requires.”



To this Athos replied quietly: “We also have money left--for I have not

yet drunk all my share of the diamond, and Porthos and Aramis have not

eaten all theirs. We can therefore use up four horses as well as one.

But consider, d’Artagnan,” added he, in a tone so solemn that it made


“Your companion!” cried d’Artagnan, becoming more pale than the white

veil of his mistress. “Of what companion are you speaking, dear

Constance?”



“Of her whose carriage was at the gate; of a woman who calls herself

your friend; of a woman to whom you have told everything.”



“Her name, her name!” cried d’Artagnan. “My God, can you not remember

her name?”



“Yes, it was pronounced in my hearing once. Stop--but--it is very

strange--oh, my God, my head swims! I cannot see!”



“Help, help, my friends! her hands are icy cold,” cried d’Artagnan. “She

is ill! Great God, she is losing her senses!”



While Porthos was calling for help with all the power of his strong

voice, Aramis ran to the table to get a glass of water; but he stopped

at seeing the horrible alteration that had taken place in the

countenance of Athos, who, standing before the table, his hair rising

from his head, his eyes fixed in stupor, was looking at one of the

glasses, and appeared a prey to the most horrible doubt.



“Oh!” said Athos, “oh, no, it is impossible! God would not permit such a

crime!”



“Water, water!” cried d’Artagnan. “Water!”



“Oh, poor woman, poor woman!” murmured Athos, in a broken voice.



Mme. Bonacieux opened her eyes under the kisses of d’Artagnan.



“She revives!” cried the young man. “Oh, my God, my God, I thank thee!”



“Madame!” said Athos, “madame, in the name of heaven, whose empty glass

is this?”



“Mine, monsieur,” said the young woman, in a dying voice.



“But who poured the wine for you that was in this glass?”



“She.”



“But who is SHE?”



“Oh, I remember!” said Mme. Bonacieux, “the Comtesse de Winter.”



The four friends uttered one and the same cry, but that of Athos

dominated all the rest.



At that moment the countenance of Mme. Bonacieux became livid; a fearful

agony pervaded her frame, and she sank panting into the arms of Porthos

and Aramis.




