first volume of the three or four-volume editions. Ten Years Later

can, similarly, refer to the whole book, or the second volume of the

four-volume edition. To add to the confusion, in the case of our etexts,

it refers to the first 104 chapters of the whole book, covering material

in the first and second etexts in the new series. Here is a guide to the

series which may prove helpful:



The Three Musketeers: Etext 1257--First book of the D’Artagnan Romances.

Covers the years 1625-1628.



Twenty Years After: Etext 1259--Second book of the D’Artagnan Romances.

Covers the years 1648-1649. [Third in the order that we published, but

second in time sequence!!!]



Ten Years Later: Etext 1258--First 104 chapters of the third book of the

D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years 1660-1661.



The Vicomte de Bragelonne: Etext 2609 (first in the new series)--First

75 chapters of the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the

year 1660.



Ten Years Later: Etext 2681 (second in the new series)--Chapters

76-140 of that third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years

1660-1661. [In this particular editing of it]



Louise de la Valliere: Etext 2710 (our new text)--Chapters 141-208 of

the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the year 1661.



The Man in the Iron Mask: forthcoming (our next text)--Chapters

209-269 of the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years

1661-1673.



If we’ve calculated correctly, that fourth text SHOULD correspond to

the modern editions of The Man in the Iron Mask, which is still

widely circulated, and comprises about the last 1/4 of The Vicomte de

Bragelonne.



Here is a list of the other Dumas Etexts we have published so far:



Sep 1999 La Tulipe Noire, by Alexandre

Dumas[Pere#6/French][tlpnrxxx.xxx]1910 This is an abridged edition in

French, also see our full length English Etext Jul 1997 The Black Tulip,

by Alexandre Dumas[Pere][Dumas#1][tbtlpxxx.xxx] 965 Jan 1998 The Count

of Monte Cristo by Alexandre Dumas[Pere][crstoxxx.xxx]1184





Many thanks to Dr. David Coward, whose editions of the D’Artagnan

Romances have proved an invaluable source of information.





“No, he only suspected, from what he had been told of the nature of the

works, that it was some celebrated soldier or another.”



“The devil!” said Porthos, “if I had only known that!”



“You would not have run away from Vannes as you did, perhaps?”



“No; what did you say when you couldn’t find me?”



“My dear fellow, I reflected.”



“Ah, indeed; you reflect, do you? Well, and what did that reflection

lead to?”



“It led me to guess the whole truth.”



“Come, then, tell me what did you guess after all?” said Porthos,

settling himself into an armchair, and assuming the airs of a sphinx.



“I guessed, in the first place, that you were fortifying Belle-Isle.”



“There was no great difficulty in that, for you saw me at work.”



“Wait a minute; I also guessed something else,--that you were fortifying

Belle-Isle by M. Fouquet’s orders.”



“That’s true.”



“But even that is not all. Whenever I feel myself in trim for guessing,

I do not stop on my road; and so I guessed that M. Fouquet wished to

preserve the most absolute secrecy respecting these fortifications.”



“I believe that was his intention, in fact,” said Porthos.



“Yes, but do you know why he wished to keep it secret?”



“In order it should not become known, perhaps,” said Porthos.



“That was his principal reason. But his wish was subservient to a bit of

generosity--”



“In fact,” said Porthos, “I have heard it said that M. Fouquet was a very

generous man.”



“To a bit of generosity he wished to exhibit towards the king.”



“Oh, oh!”



“You seem surprised at that?”



“Yes.”



“And you didn’t guess?”



“No.”



“Well, I know it, then.”



“You are a wizard.”



“Not at all, I assure you.”



“How do you know it, then?”



“By a very simple means. I heard M. Fouquet himself say so to the king.”

Chapter V. Planchet’s Country-House.



The cavaliers looked up, and saw that what Planchet had announced to

them was true. Ten minutes afterwards they were in the street called the

Rue de Lyon, on the opposite side of the hostelry of the Beau Paon.

A high hedge of bushy elders, hawthorn, and wild hops formed an

impenetrable fence, behind which rose a white house, with a high tiled

roof. Two of the windows, which were quite dark, looked upon the street.

Between the two, a small door, with a porch supported by a couple of

pillars, formed the entrance to the house. The door was gained by a step

raised a little from the ground. Planchet got off his horse, as if he

intended to knock at the door; but, on second thoughts, he took hold of

his horse by the bridle, and led it about thirty paces further on, his

two companions following him. He then advanced about another thirty

paces, until he arrived at the door of a cart-house, lighted by an

iron grating; and, lifting up a wooden latch, pushed open one of the

folding-doors. He entered first, leading his horse after him by the

bridle, into a small courtyard, where an odor met them which revealed

their close vicinity to a stable. “That smells all right,” said Porthos,

loudly, getting off his horse, “and I almost begin to think I am near my

own cows at Pierrefonds.”



“I have only one cow,” Planchet hastened to say modestly.



“And I have thirty,” said Porthos; “or rather, I don’t exactly know how

many I have.”



When the two cavaliers had entered, Planchet fastened the door behind

them. In the meantime, D’Artagnan, who had dismounted with his usual

agility, inhaled the fresh perfumed air with the delight a Parisian

feels at the sight of green fields and fresh foliage, plucked a piece

of honeysuckle with one hand, and of sweet-briar with the other. Porthos

clawed hold of some peas which were twined round poles stuck into

the ground, and ate, or rather browsed upon them, shells and all: and

Planchet was busily engaged trying to wake up an old and infirm peasant,

at his friend--“now let us talk of ourselves and for ourselves; will you

become one of M. Fouquet’s friends? Do not interrupt me until you know

what that means.”



“Well, I am listening.”



“Will you become a marechal of France, peer, duke, and the possessor of

a duchy, with a million of francs?”



“But, my friend,” replied D’Artagnan, “what must one do to get all

that?”



“Belong to M. Fouquet.”



“But I already belong to the king.”



“Not exclusively, I suppose.”



“Oh! a D’Artagnan cannot be divided.”



“You have, I presume, ambitions, as noble hearts like yours have.”



“Yes, certainly I have.”



“Well?”



“Well! I wish to be a marechal; the king will make me marechal, duke,

peer; the king will make me all that.”



Aramis fixed a searching look upon D’Artagnan.



“Is not the king master?” said D’Artagnan.



“No one disputes it; but Louis XIII. was master also.”



“Oh! my dear friend, between Richelieu and Louis XIII. stood no

D’Artagnan,” said the musketeer, very quietly.



“There are many stumbling-blocks round the king,” said Aramis.



“Not for the king’s feet.”



“Very likely not; still--”



“One moment, Aramis; I observe that every one thinks of himself, and

never of his poor prince; I will maintain myself maintaining him.”



“And if you meet with ingratitude?”



“The weak alone are afraid of that.”



“You are quite certain of yourself?”



“I think so.”



“Still, the king may some day have no further need for you!”



“On the contrary, I think his need of me will soon be greater than ever;

and hearken, my dear fellow, if it became necessary to arrest a new

Conde, who would do it? This--this alone in France!” and D’Artagnan

struck his sword, which clanked sullenly on the tesselated floor.



“You are right,” said Aramis, turning very pale; and then he rose and

pressed D’Artagnan’s hand.



“That is the last summons for supper,” said the captain of the

block of ice; but it is a very different thing when an absent friend

is concerned, a friend, who, on leaving, confided his interests to my

safe-keeping; for such a friend, De Wardes, believe me, I am like fire

itself.”



“I understand you, Monsieur de Guiche. In spite of what you say, there

cannot be any question between us, just now, either of Bragelonne or of

this insignificant girl, whose name is La Valliere.”



At this moment some of the younger courtiers were crossing the

apartment, and having already heard the few words which had just been

pronounced, were able also to hear those which were about to follow. De

Wardes observed this, and continued aloud:--“Oh! if La Valliere were a

coquette like Madame, whose innocent flirtations, I am sure, were, first

of all, the cause of the Duke of Buckingham being sent back to England,

and afterwards were the reason of your being sent into exile; for you

will not deny, I suppose, that Madame’s pretty ways really had a certain

influence over you?”



The courtiers drew nearer to the speakers, Saint-Aignan at their head,

and then Manicamp.



“But, my dear fellow, whose fault was that?” said De Guiche, laughing.

“I am a vain, conceited fellow, I know, and everybody else knows it too.

I took seriously that which was only intended as a jest, and got myself

exiled for my pains. But I saw my error. I overcame my vanity, and I

obtained my recall, by making the _amende honorable_, and by promising

myself to overcome this defect; and the consequence is, that I am so

thoroughly cured, that I now laugh at the very thing which, three or

four days ago, would have almost broken my heart. But Raoul is in love,

and is loved in return; he cannot laugh at the reports which disturb his

happiness--reports which you seem to have undertaken to interpret, when

you know, marquis, as I do, as these gentlemen do, as every one does in

fact, that all such reports are pure calumny.”



“Calumny!” exclaimed De Wardes, furious at seeing himself caught in the

snare by De Guiche’s coolness of temper.

most carefully, on foot and with his lantern in his hand, the whole

surface of the Rond-point, went forward, turned back again, measured,

examined, and after half an hour’s minute inspection, he returned

silently to where he had left his horse, and pursued his way in deep

reflection and at a foot-pace to Fontainebleau. Louis was waiting in his

cabinet; he was alone, and with a pencil was scribbling on paper certain

lines which D’Artagnan at the first glance recognized as unequal and

very much touched up. The conclusion he arrived at was, that they must

be verses. The king raised his head and perceived D’Artagnan. “Well,

monsieur,” he said, “do you bring me any news?”



“Yes, sire.”



“What have you seen?”



“As far as probability goes, sire--” D’Artagnan began to reply.



“It was certainty I requested of you.”



“I will approach it as near as I possibly can. The weather was very well

adapted for investigations of the character I have just made; it has

been raining this evening, and the roads were wet and muddy--”



“Well, the result, M. d’Artagnan?”



“Sire, your majesty told me that there was a horse lying dead in the

cross-road of the Bois-Rochin, and I began, therefore, by studying the

roads. I say the roads, because the center of the cross-road is reached

by four separate roads. The one that I myself took was the only one that

presented any fresh traces. Two horses had followed it side by side;

their eight feet were marked very distinctly in the clay. One of the

riders was more impatient than the other, for the footprints of the one

were invariably in advance of the other about half a horse’s length.”



“Are you quite sure they were traveling together?” said the king.



“Yes sire. The horses are two rather large animals of equal

pace,--horses well used to maneuvers of all kinds, for they wheeled

round the barrier of the Rond-point together.”



“Well--and after?”



“The two cavaliers paused there for a minute, no doubt to arrange the

conditions of the engagement; the horses grew restless and impatient.

but would have followed me without requiring any explanation.”



“Well, mademoiselle, I am quite ready to conduct myself as a true

knight.”



“No; it is too late, and you cannot take the credit of it. We are going

to Madame’s apartment, so come at once.”



“Ah, ah!” said Manicamp. “Lead on, then.”



And he followed Montalais, who ran before him as light as Galatea.



“This time,” said Manicamp, as he followed his guide, “I do not think

that stories about hunting expeditions would be acceptable. We will try,

however, and if need be--well, if there should be any occasion for it,

we must try something else.”



Montalais still ran on.



“How fatiguing it is,” thought Manicamp, “to have need of one’s head and

legs at the same time.”



At last, however, they arrived. Madame had just finished undressing, and

was in a most elegant _deshabille_, but it must be understood that she

had changed her dress before she had any idea of being subjected to

the emotions now agitating her. She was waiting with the most restless

impatience; and Montalais and Manicamp found her standing near the door.

At the sound of their approaching footsteps, Madame came forward to meet

them.



“Ah!” she said, “at last!”



“Here is M. Manicamp,” replied Montalais.



Manicamp bowed with the greatest respect; Madame signed to Montalais to

withdraw, and she immediately obeyed. Madame followed her with her eyes,

in silence, until the door closed behind her, and then, turning towards

Manicamp, said, “What is the matter?--and is it true, as I am told,

Monsieur de Manicamp, that some one is lying wounded in the chateau?”



“Yes, Madame, unfortunately so--Monsieur de Guiche.”



“Yes, Monsieur de Guiche,” repeated the princess. “I had, in fact,

heard it rumored, but not confirmed. And so, in truth, it is Monsieur de

Guiche who has been thus unfortunate?”



“M. de Guiche himself, Madame.”



“Are you aware, M. de Manicamp,” said the princess, hastily, “that the

king has the strongest antipathy to duels?”



“Perfectly so, Madame; but a duel with a wild beast is not answerable.”



“I thought she was affianced to a gentleman who certainly is not, at

least so I have heard, either M. de Guiche or M. de Wardes?”



“Very possibly, madame.”



The young queen took up a piece of tapestry, and began to broider with

an affectation of tranquillity her trembling fingers contradicted.



“What were you saying about Venus and Mars?” pursued the queen-mother.

“Is there a Mars also?”



“She boasts of that being the case.”



“Did you say she boasts of it?”



“That was the cause of the duel.”



“And M. de Guiche upheld the cause of Mars?”



“Yes, certainly; like the devoted servant he is.”



“The devoted servant of whom?” exclaimed the young queen, forgetting her

reserve in allowing her jealous feeling to escape.



“Mars, not to be defended except at the expense of Venus,” replied

Madame. “M. de Guiche maintained the perfect innocence of Mars, and no

doubt affirmed that it was all a mere boast.”



“And M. de Wardes,” said Anne of Austria, quietly, “spread the report

that Venus was within her rights, I suppose?”



“Oh, De Wardes,” thought Madame, “you shall pay dearly for the wound you

have given that noblest--best of men!” And she began to attack De Wardes

with the greatest bitterness; thus discharging her own and De Guiche’s

debt, with the assurance that she was working the future ruin of her

enemy. She said so much, in fact, that had Manicamp been there, he would

have regretted he had shown such firm regard for his friend, inasmuch as

it resulted in the ruin of his unfortunate foe.



“I see nothing in the whole affair but _one_ cause of mischief, and that

is La Valliere herself,” said the queen-mother.



The young queen resumed her work with perfect indifference of manner,

while Madame listened eagerly.



“I do not yet quite understand what you said just now about the danger

of coquetry,” resumed Anne of Austria.



“It is quite true,” Madame hastened to say, “that if the girl had not


“Very good! I will mention the word ‘medal,’ and they can understand it

if they like.”



“Oh! they will understand without any difficulty. Your majesty can also

slip in a few words about certain pamphlets which are being circulated.”



“Never! Pamphlets befoul those who write them much more than those

against whom they are written. M. Colbert, I thank you. You can leave

now. Do not forget the hour I have fixed, and be there yourself.”



“Sire, I await your majesty’s list.”



“True,” returned the king; and he began to meditate; he had not thought

of the list in the least. The clock struck half-past eleven. The king’s

face revealed a violent conflict between pride and love. The political

conversation had dispelled a good deal of the irritation which Louis had

felt, and La Valliere’s pale, worn features, in his imagination, spoke

a very different language from that of the Dutch medals, or the Batavian

pamphlets. He sat for ten minutes debating within himself whether he

should or should not return to La Valliere; but Colbert having with some

urgency respectfully requested that the list might be furnished him,

the king was ashamed to be thinking of mere matters of affection where

important state affairs required his attention. He therefore dictated:

the queen-mother, the queen, Madame, Madame de Motteville, Madame de

Chatillon, Madame de Navailles; and, for the men, M. le Prince, M. de

Gramont, M. de Manicamp, M. de Saint-Aignan, and the officers on duty.



“The ministers?” asked Colbert.



“As a matter of course, and the secretaries also.”



“Sire, I will leave at once in order to get everything prepared; the

orders will be at the different residences to-morrow.”



“Say rather to-day,” replied Louis mournfully, as the clock struck

twelve. It was the very hour when poor La Valliere was almost dying from

anguish and bitter suffering. The king’s attendants entered, it being

the hour of his retirement to his chamber; the queen, indeed, had

been waiting for more than an hour. Louis accordingly retreated to his

bedroom with a sigh; but, as he sighed, he congratulated himself on his

courage, and applauded himself for having been as firm in love as in

he did, placed the letter within it, and returned the handkerchief to

the place he had taken it from. There was only just time for La Valliere

to stretch out her hand to take hold of the handkerchief with its

valuable contents.



But Madame, who had observed everything that had passed, said to

Mademoiselle de Chatillon, “Chatillon, be good enough to pick up the

king’s handkerchief, if you please; it has fallen on the carpet.”



The young girl obeyed with the utmost precipitation, the king having

moved from his seat, and La Valliere being in no little degree nervous

and confused.



“Ah! I beg your majesty’s pardon,” said Mademoiselle de Chatillon; “you

have two handkerchiefs, I perceive.”



And the king was accordingly obliged to put into his pocket La

Valliere’s handkerchief as well as his own. He certainly gained that

souvenir of Louise, who lost, however, a copy of verses which had cost

the king ten hours’ hard labor, and which, as far as he was concerned,

was perhaps as good as a long poem. It would be impossible to describe

the king’s anger and La Valliere’s despair; but shortly afterwards a

circumstance occurred which was more than remarkable. When the king

left, in order to retire to his own apartments, Malicorne, informed

of what had passed, one can hardly tell how, was waiting in the

ante-chamber. The ante-chambers of the Palais Royal are naturally very

dark, and, in the evening, they were but indifferently lighted. Nothing

pleased the king more than this dim light. As a general rule, love,

whose mind and heart are constantly in a blaze, contemns all light,

except the sunshine of the soul. And so the ante-chamber was dark; a

page carried a torch before the king, who walked on slowly, greatly

annoyed at what had recently occurred. Malicorne passed close to the

king, almost stumbled against him in fact, and begged his forgiveness

with the profoundest humility; but the king, who was in an exceedingly

ill-temper, was very sharp in his reproof to Malicorne, who disappeared

as soon and as quietly as he possibly could. Louis retired to rest,

having had a misunderstanding with the queen; and the next day, as soon



“Enough,” said Madame; “I desire it. I prefer Mademoiselle la Baume le

Blanc’s society to that of any one else. Go, and send her to me, and

take care of your foot.”



Montalais did not wait for the order to be repeated; she returned to her

room, almost forgetting to feign lameness, wrote an answer to Malicorne,

and slipped it under the carpet. The answer simply said: “She shall.” A

Spartan could not have written more laconically.



“By this means,” thought Madame, “I will look narrowly after all on the

road; she shall sleep near me during the night, and his majesty must

be very clever if he can exchange a single word with Mademoiselle de la

Valliere.”



La Valliere received the order to set off with the same indifferent

gentleness with which she had received the order to play Cinderella.

But, inwardly, her delight was extreme, and she looked upon this change

in the princess’s resolution as a consolation which Providence had sent

her. With less penetration than Madame possessed, she attributed all

to chance. While every one, with the exception of those in disgrace,

of those who were ill, and those who were suffering from sprains, were

being driven towards Saint-Germain, Malicorne smuggled his workman into

the palace in one of M. de Saint-Aignan’s carriages, and led him into

the room corresponding to La Valliere’s. The man set to work with a

will, tempted by the splendid reward which had been promised him. As the

very best tools and implements had been selected from the reserve stock

belonging to the engineers attached to the king’s household--and among

others, a saw with teeth so sharp and well tempered that it was able,

under water even, to cut through oaken joists as hard as iron--the work

in question advanced very rapidly, and a square portion of the ceiling,

taken from between two of the joists, fell into the arms of the

delighted Saint-Aignan, Malicorne, the workman, and a confidential

valet, the latter being one brought into the world to see and hear

everything, but to repeat nothing. In accordance with a new plan

indicated by Malicorne, the opening was effected in an angle of the

Monsieur de Bragelonne, that although I possess half of her nature, I do

not share her happiness. But let us now speak of yourself; whom do you

love in France?”



“A young girl, as soft and pure as a lily.”



“But if she loves you, why are you sad?”



“I have been told that she ceases to love me.”



“You do not believe it, I trust?”



“He who wrote me so does not sign his letter.”



“An anonymous denunciation! some treachery, be assured,” said Miss

Grafton.



“Stay,” said Raoul, showing the young girl a letter which he had read

over a thousand times; she took it from his hand and read as follows:



“VICOMTE,--You are perfectly right to amuse yourself yonder with the

lovely faces of Charles II.’s court, for at Louis XIV.’s court, the

castle in which your affections are enshrined is being besieged. Stay in

London altogether, poor vicomte, or return without delay to Paris.”



“There is no signature,” said Miss Mary.



“None.”



“Believe it not, then.”



“Very good; but here is a second letter, from my friend De Guiche, which

says, ‘I am lying here wounded and ill. Return, Raoul, oh, return!’”



“What do you intend doing?” inquired the young girl, with a feeling of

oppression at her heart.



“My intention, as soon as I received this letter, was immediately to

take my leave of the king.”



“When did you receive it?”



“The day before yesterday.”



“It is dated Fontainebleau.”



“A singular circumstance, do you not think, for the court is now at

Paris? At all events, I would have set off; but when I mentioned my

intention to the king, he began to laugh, and said to me, ‘How comes

it, monsieur l’amassadeur, that you think of leaving? Has your sovereign

recalled you?’ I colored, naturally enough, for I was confused by the

question; for the fact is, the king himself sent me here, and I have

received no order to return.”



Mary frowned in deep thought, and said, “Do you remain, then?”

“But by what extraordinary chance did it happen that you were at the

hotel when the affiliated travelers met together?”



“Oh!” said Aramis, in a calm voice, “it was the merest chance in the

world. I was going to Fontainebleau to see M. Fouquet, for the purpose

of obtaining an audience of the king. I was passing by, unknown; I saw

the poor dying monk in the road, and recognized him immediately. You

know the rest--he died in my arms.”



“Yes; but bequeathing to you so vast a power that you issue your

sovereign orders and directions like a monarch.”



“He certainly did leave me a few commissions to settle.”



“And what for me?”



“I have told you--a sum of twelve thousand livres was to be paid to

you. I thought I had given you the necessary signature to enable you to

receive it. Did you not get the money?”



“Oh! yes, yes. You give your orders, I am informed, with so much

mystery, and such a majestic presence, that it is generally believed you

are the successor of the defunct chief.”



Aramis colored impatiently, and the duchesse continued: “I have obtained

my information,” she said, “from the king of Spain himself; and he

cleared up some of my doubts on the point. Every general of the Jesuits

is nominated by him, and must be a Spaniard, according to the statutes

of the order. You are not a Spaniard, nor have you been nominated by the

king of Spain.”



Aramis did not reply to this remark, except to say, “You see, duchesse,

how greatly you were mistaken, since the king of Spain told you that.”



“Yes, my dear Aramis; but there was something else which I have been

thinking of.”



“What is that?”



“You know, I believe, something about most things, and it occurred to me

that you know the Spanish language.”



“Every Frenchman who has been actively engaged in the Fronde knows

Spanish.”



“You have lived in Flanders?”



“Three years.”



“And have stayed at Madrid?”

to ruin; and we ought to save the honor of the body of which we are

members.”



“Exactly; and that explains why M. Fouquet will be always safe and

sound, so long as he occupies his present post,” replied Colbert.



“Thereupon,” said Vanel, “M. Gourville added, ‘If we were to do anything

out of charity to M. Fouquet, it could not be otherwise than most

humiliating to him; and he would be sure to refuse it. Let the

parliament subscribe among themselves to purchase, in a proper manner,

the post of procureur-general; in that case, all would go well; the

honor of our body would be saved, and M. Fouquet’s pride spared.’”



“That is an opening.”



“I considered it so, monseigneur.”



“Well, Monsieur Vanel, you will go at once, and find out either M.

Gourville or M. Pelisson. Do you know any other friend of M. Fouquet?”



“I know M. de la Fontaine very well.”



“La Fontaine, the rhymester?”



“Yes; he used to write verses to my wife, when M. Fouquet was one of our

friends.”



“Go to him, then, and try and procure an interview with the

superintendent.”



“Willingly--but the sum itself?”



“On the day and hour you arrange to settle the matter, Monsieur Vanel,

you shall be supplied with the money, so do not make yourself uneasy on

_that_ account.”



“Monseigneur, such munificence! You eclipse kings even--you surpass M.

Fouquet himself.”



“Stay a moment--do not let us mistake each other: I do not make you a

present of fourteen hundred thousand francs, Monsieur Vanel; for I have

children to provide for--but I will _lend_ you that sum.”



“Ask whatever interest, whatever security you please, monseigneur; I am

quite ready. And when all your requisitions are satisfied, I will still

repeat, that you surpass kings and M. Fouquet in munificence. What

conditions do you impose?”



“The repayment in eight years, and a mortgage upon the appointment

itself.”



“Certainly. Is that all?”



“Wait a moment. I reserve to myself the right of purchasing the post



“Because the hare will be the very one who will not be over pleased to

see M. Fouquet surrounded by all the attributes which his parliamentary

strength and power confer on him.”



“Oh! oh!” murmured the poets.



“_Quo non ascendam_,” said Conrart, “seems impossible to me, when one is

fortunate enough to wear the gown of the procureur-general.” [9]



“On the contrary, it seems so to me without that gown,” said the

obstinate Pelisson; “what is your opinion, Gourville?”



“I think the gown in question is a very good thing,” replied the latter;

“but I equally think that a million and a half is far better than the

gown.”



“And I am of Gourville’s opinion,” exclaimed Fouquet, stopping the

discussion by the expression of his own opinion, which would necessarily

bear down all the others.



“A million and a half,” Pelisson grumbled out; “now I happen to know an

Indian fable--”



“Tell it to me,” said La Fontaine; “I ought to know it too.”



“Tell it, tell it,” said the others.



“There was a tortoise, which was, as usual, well protected by its

shell,” said Pelisson; “whenever its enemies threatened it, it took

refuge within its covering. One day some one said to it, ‘You must feel

very hot in such a house as that in the summer, and you are altogether

prevented showing off your graces; there is a snake here, who will give

you a million and a half for your shell.’”



“Good!” said the superintendent, laughing.



“Well, what next?” said La Fontaine, more interested in the apologue

than in the moral.



“The tortoise sold his shell and remained naked and defenseless. A

vulture happened to see him, and being hungry, broke the tortoise’s back

with a blow of his beak and devoured it. The moral is, that M. Fouquet

should take very good care to keep his gown.”



La Fontaine understood the moral seriously. “You forget Aeschylus,” he

said, to his adversary.



“What do you mean?”



“Aeschylus was bald-headed, and a vulture--your vulture, probably--who

they would become, without ceasing to be men of honor.”



“What they did would be termed the acts of a scoundrel,” replied

Fouquet.



“Far from that; it would be merely coquetting or playing with the truth.

At all events, since you have finished with this Vanel; since you have

deprived yourself of the happiness of confounding him by repudiating

your word; and since you have given up, for the purpose of being used

against yourself, the only weapon which can ruin you--”



“My dear friend,” said Fouquet, mournfully, “you are like the teacher of

philosophy whom La Fontaine was telling us about the other day; he saw

a child drowning, and began to read him a lecture divided into three

heads.”



Aramis smiled as he said, “Philosophy--yes; teacher--yes; a drowning

child--yes; but a child can be saved--you shall see. But first of all

let us talk about business. Did you not some time ago,” he continued, as

Fouquet looked at him with a bewildered air, “speak to me about an idea

you had of giving a _fete_ at Vaux?”



“Oh!” said Fouquet, “that was when affairs were flourishing.”



“A _fete_, I believe, to which the king invited himself of his own

accord?”



“No, no, my dear prelate; a _fete_ to which M. Colbert advised the king

to invite himself.”



“Ah--exactly; as it would be a _fete_ of so costly a character that you

would be ruined in giving it.”



“Precisely so. In happier days, as I said just now, I had a kind of

pride in showing my enemies how inexhaustible my resources were; I felt

it a point of honor to strike them with amazement, by creating millions

under circumstances where they imagined nothing but bankruptcies and

failures would follow. But, at present, I am arranging my accounts with

the state, with the king, with myself; and I must now become a mean,

stingy man; I shall be able to prove to the world that I can act or

operate with my deniers as I used to do with my bags of pistoles, and

from to-morrow my equipages shall be sold, my mansions mortgaged, my



“I thank you, Madame; I appreciate the advice your royal highness is

good enough to give me, and I will endeavor to follow it; but one final

word, I beg.”



“Name it.”



“Should I be indiscreet in asking you the secret of this staircase, of

this trap-door; a secret, which, it seems, you have discovered?”



“Nothing more simple. For the purpose of exercising a surveillance over

the young girls who are attached to my service, I have duplicate keys of

their doors. It seemed very strange to me that M. de Saint-Aignan should

change his apartments. It seemed very strange that the king should

come to see M. de Saint-Aignan every day, and, finally, it seemed very

strange that so many things should be done during your absence, that the

very habits and customs of the court appeared changed. I do not wish

to be trifled with by the king, nor to serve as a cloak for his love

affairs; for after La Valliere, who weeps incessantly, he will take a

fancy to Montalais, who is always laughing; and then to Tonnay-Charente,

who does nothing but sing all day; to act such a part as that would be

unworthy of me. I thrust aside the scruples which my friendship for

you suggested. I discovered the secret. I have wounded your feelings, I

know, and I again entreat you to pardon me; but I had a duty to fulfil.

I have discharged it. You are now forewarned; the tempest will soon

burst; protect yourself accordingly.”



“You naturally expect, however, that a result of some kind must follow,”

 replied Bragelonne, with firmness; “for you do not suppose I shall

silently accept the shame thus thrust upon me, or the treachery which

has been practiced against me?”



“You will take whatever steps in the matter you please, Monsieur Raoul,

only do not betray the source whence you derived the truth. That is all

I have to ask,--the only price I require for the service I have rendered

you.”



“Fear nothing, Madame,” said Bragelonne, with a bitter smile.



“I bribed the locksmith, in whom the lovers confided. You can just as

who, with his face bedewed with perspiration, felt almost on the point

of fainting. “To whom have you sold this department, Monsieur Fouquet?”

 inquired the king.



Colbert was obliged to lean against a column of the fireplace. “To a

councilor belonging to the parliament, sire, whose name is Vanel.”



“Vanel?”



“Yes, sire, a particular friend of the intendant Colbert,” added

Fouquet; letting every word fall from his lips with the most inimitable

nonchalance, and with an admirably assumed expression of forgetfulness

and ignorance. And having finished, and having overwhelmed Colbert

beneath the weight of this superiority, the superintendent again saluted

the king and quitted the room, partially revenged by the stupefaction of

the king and the humiliation of the favorite.



“Is it really possible,” said the king, as soon as Fouquet had

disappeared, “that he has sold that office?”



“Yes, sire,” said Colbert, meaningly.



“He must be mad,” the king added.



Colbert this time did not reply; he had penetrated the king’s thought,

a thought which amply revenged him for the humiliation he had just been

made to suffer; his hatred was augmented by a feeling of bitter jealousy

of Fouquet; and a threat of disgrace was now added to the plan he had

arranged for his ruin. Colbert felt perfectly assured that for the

future, between Louis XIV. and himself, their hostile feelings and ideas

would meet with no obstacles, and that at the first fault committed by

Fouquet, which could be laid hold of as a pretext, the chastisement

so long impending would be precipitated. Fouquet had thrown aside his

weapons of defense, and hate and jealousy had picked them up. Colbert

was invited by the king to the _fete_ at Vaux; he bowed like a man

confident in himself, and accepted the invitation with the air of

one who almost confers a favor. The king was about writing down

Saint-Aignan’s name on his list of royal commands, when the usher

announced the Comte de Saint-Aignan. As soon as the royal “Mercury”

 entered, Colbert discreetly withdrew.







Chapter LVII. Rivals in Love.



and particularly what is due to oneself.’ But Guiche, and Manicamp,

and Saint-Aignan particularly, would say to me: ‘What’s honor? Honor

consists in studying and yielding to the passions and pleasures of one’s

king.’ Honor such as that indeed, is easy and productive enough. With

honor like that, I can keep my post at the court, become a gentleman of

the chamber, and accept the command of a regiment, which may at any time

be presented to me. With honor such as that, I can be duke and peer.



“The stain which that woman has stamped upon me, the grief that has

broken my heart, the heart of the friend and playmate of her childhood,

in no way affects M. de Bragelonne, an excellent officer, a courageous

leader, who will cover himself with glory at the first encounter, and

who will become a hundred times greater than Mademoiselle de la Valliere

is to-day, the mistress of the king--for the king will not marry

her--and the more publicly he will proclaim her as his mistress, the

more opaque will grow the shadow of shame he casts upon her face, in the

guise of a crown; and in proportion as others despise, as I despise her,

I shall be gleaning honors in the field. Alas! we had walked together

side by side, she and I, during the earliest, the brightest, the most

angelic portion of our existence, hand in hand along the charming path

of life, covered with the blossoms of youth; and then, alas! we reach

a cross-road, where she separates herself from me, in which we have

to follow a different route, whereby we become more and more widely

separated from each other. And to attain the end of this path, oh,

Heaven! I am now alone, in utter despair, and crushed to the very

earth.”



Such were the sinister reflections in which Raoul indulged, when his

foot mechanically paused at the door of his own dwelling. He had reached

it without remarking the streets through which he passed, without

knowing how he had come; he pushed open the door, continued to advance,

and ascended the staircase. The staircase, as in most of the houses at


bend and crouch before you? Do you wish men to love you, or to be afraid

of you? If you prefer baseness, intrigue, cowardice, say so at once,

sire, and we will leave you,--we who are the only individuals who are

left,--nay, I will say more, the only models of the valor of former

times; we who have done our duty, and have exceeded, perhaps, in courage

and in merit, the men already great for posterity. Choose, sire! and

that, too, without delay. Whatever relics remain to you of the great

nobility, guard them with a jealous eye; you will never be deficient in

courtiers. Delay not--and send me to the Bastile with my friend; for, if

you did not know how to listen to the Comte de la Fere, whose voice is

the sweetest and noblest in all the world when honor is the theme; if

you do not know how to listen to D’Artagnan, the frankest and honestest

voice of sincerity, you are a bad king, and to-morrow will be a poor

king. And learn from me, sire, that bad kings are hated by their people,

and poor kings are driven ignominiously away.’ That is what I had to say

to you, sire; you were wrong to drive me to say it.”



The king threw himself back in his chair, cold as death, and as livid as

a corpse. Had a thunderbolt fallen at his feet, he could not have been

more astonished; he seemed as if his respiration had utterly ceased,

and that he was at the point of death. The honest voice of sincerity,

as D’Artagnan had called it, had pierced through his heart like a

sword-blade.



D’Artagnan had said all he had to say. Comprehending the king’s anger,

he drew his sword, and, approaching Louis XIV. respectfully, he placed

it on the table. But the king, with a furious gesture, thrust aside

the sword, which fell on the ground and rolled to D’Artagnan’s feet.

Notwithstanding the perfect mastery which D’Artagnan exercised over

himself, he, too, in his turn, became pale, and, trembling with

indignation, said: “A king may disgrace a soldier,--he may exile him,

and may even condemn him to death; but were he a hundred times a king,

