volumes: The Vicomte de Bragelonne can refer to the whole book, or the

first volume of the three or four-volume editions. Ten Years Later

can, similarly, refer to the whole book, or the second volume of the

four-volume edition. To add to the confusion, in the case of our etexts,

it refers to the first 104 chapters of the whole book, covering material

in the first and second etexts in the new series. Here is a guide to the

series which may prove helpful:



The Three Musketeers: Etext 1257--First book of the D’Artagnan Romances.

Covers the years 1625-1628.



Twenty Years After: Etext 1259--Second book of the D’Artagnan Romances.

Covers the years 1648-1649. [Third in the order that we published, but

second in time sequence!!!]



Ten Years Later: Etext 1258--First 104 chapters of the third book of the

D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years 1660-1661.



The Vicomte de Bragelonne: Etext 2609 (first in the new series)--First

75 chapters of the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the

year 1660.



Ten Years Later: Etext 2681 (second in the new series)--Chapters

76-140 of that third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years

1660-1661. [In this particular editing of it]



Louise de la Valliere: Etext 2710 (third in the new series)--Chapters

141-208 of the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the year

1661.



The Man in the Iron Mask: Etext 2759 (our next text)--Chapters

209-269 of the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years

1661-1673.



Here is a list of the other Dumas Etexts we have published so far:



Sep 1999 La Tulipe Noire, by Alexandre

Dumas[Pere#6/French][tlpnrxxx.xxx]1910 This is an abridged edition in

French, also see our full length English Etext Jul 1997 The Black Tulip,

by Alexandre Dumas[Pere][Dumas#1][tbtlpxxx.xxx] 965 Jan 1998 The Count

of Monte Cristo by Alexandre Dumas[Pere][crstoxxx.xxx]1184





Many thanks to Dr. David Coward, whose editions of the D’Artagnan

Romances have proved an invaluable source of information.





Introduction:



In the months of March-July in 1844, in the magazine Le Siecle, the

first portion of a story appeared, penned by the celebrated playwright


successor.”



“Then,” said Aramis, “you know that the last reigning monarch was Louis

XIII.?”



“I do,” answered the youth, slightly reddening.



“Well, he was a prince full of noble ideas and great projects, always,

alas! deferred by the trouble of the times and the dread struggle that

his minister Richelieu had to maintain against the great nobles of

France. The king himself was of a feeble character, and died young and

unhappy.”



“I know it.”



“He had been long anxious about having a heir; a care which weighs

heavily on princes, who desire to leave behind them more than one pledge

that their best thoughts and works will be continued.”



“Did the king, then, die childless?” asked the prisoner, smiling.



“No, but he was long without one, and for a long while thought he should

be the last of his race. This idea had reduced him to the depths of

despair, when suddenly, his wife, Anne of Austria--”



The prisoner trembled.



“Did you know,” said Aramis, “that Louis XIII.’s wife was called Anne of

Austria?”



“Continue,” said the young man, without replying to the question.



“When suddenly,” resumed Aramis, “the queen announced an interesting

event. There was great joy at the intelligence, and all prayed for her

happy delivery. On the 5th of September, 1638, she gave birth to a son.”



Here Aramis looked at his companion, and thought he observed him turning

pale. “You are about to hear,” said Aramis, “an account which few indeed

could now avouch; for it refers to a secret which they imagined buried

with the dead, entombed in the abyss of the confessional.”



“And you will tell me this secret?” broke in the youth.



“Oh!” said Aramis, with unmistakable emphasis, “I do not know that I

ought to risk this secret by intrusting it to one who has no desire to

quit the Bastile.”



“I hear you, monsieur.”



“The queen, then, gave birth to a son. But while the court was rejoicing

over the event, when the king had shown the new-born child to the

am engaged.”



“Eh! yes, on the king’s costumes; I know that, my dear Monsieur

Percerin. You are making three, they tell me.”



“Five, my dear sir, five.”



“Three or five, ‘tis all the same to me, my dear monsieur; and I know

that you will make them most exquisitely.”



“Yes, I know. Once made they will be the most beautiful in the world,

I do not deny it; but that they may be the most beautiful in the word,

they must first be made; and to do this, captain, I am pressed for

time.”



“Oh, bah! there are two days yet; ‘tis much more than you require,

Monsieur Percerin,” said D’Artagnan, in the coolest possible manner.



Percerin raised his head with the air of a man little accustomed to be

contradicted, even in his whims; but D’Artagnan did not pay the least

attention to the airs which the illustrious tailor began to assume.



“My dear M. Percerin,” he continued, “I bring you a customer.”



“Ah! ah!” exclaimed Percerin, crossly.



“M. le Baron du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds,” continued

D’Artagnan. Percerin attempted a bow, which found no favor in the eyes

of the terrible Porthos, who, from his first entry into the room, had

been regarding the tailor askance.



“A very good friend of mine,” concluded D’Artagnan.



“I will attend to monsieur,” said Percerin, “but later.”



“Later? but when?”



“When I have time.”



“You have already told my valet as much,” broke in Porthos,

discontentedly.



“Very likely,” said Percerin; “I am nearly always pushed for time.”



“My friend,” returned Porthos, sententiously, “there is always time to

be found when one chooses to seek it.”



Percerin turned crimson; an ominous sign indeed in old men blanched by

age.



“Monsieur is quite at liberty to confer his custom elsewhere.”



“Come, come, Percerin,” interposed D’Artagnan, “you are not in a good

temper to-day. Well, I will say one more word to you, which will bring

you on your knees; monsieur is not only a friend of mine, but more, a




“Yes; poor Moliere!” said Loret, smiling; “he loves his home.”



“‘_He_ loves,’ yes,” replied Moliere, with his sad, sweet smile. “‘He

loves,’ that does not mean, they love _him_.”



“As for me,” said La Fontaine, “they love me at Chateau Thierry, I am

very sure.”



Aramis here re-entered after a brief disappearance.



“Will any one go with me?” he asked. “I am going by Paris, after having

passed a quarter of an hour with M. Fouquet. I offer my carriage.”



“Good,” said Moliere, “I accept it. I am in a hurry.”



“I shall dine here,” said Loret. “M. de Gourville has promised me some

craw-fish.”



“He has promised me some whitings. Find a rhyme for that, La Fontaine.”



Aramis went out laughing, as only he could laugh, and Moliere followed

him. They were at the bottom of the stairs, when La Fontaine opened the

door, and shouted out:





“He has promised us some whitings, In return for these our writings.”



The shouts of laughter reached the ears of Fouquet at the moment Aramis

opened the door of the study. As to Moliere, he had undertaken to

order the horses, while Aramis went to exchange a parting word with the

superintendent. “Oh, how they are laughing there!” said Fouquet, with a

sigh.



“Do you not laugh, monseigneur?”



“I laugh no longer now, M. d’Herblay. The _fete_ is approaching; money

is departing.”



“Have I not told you that was my business?”



“Yes, you promised me millions.”



“You shall have them the day after the king’s _entree_ into Vaux.”



Fouquet looked closely at Aramis, and passed the back of his icy hand

across his moistened brow. Aramis perceived that the superintendent

either doubted him, or felt he was powerless to obtain the money. How

could Fouquet suppose that a poor bishop, ex-abbe, ex-musketeer, could

find any?



“Why doubt me?” said Aramis. Fouquet smiled and shook his head.



“Man of little faith!” added the bishop.



“My dear M. d’Herblay,” answered Fouquet, “if I fall--”

At this point in Aramis’s gloomy analysis, a bird of night uttered from

the depths of the forest that prolonged and plaintive cry which makes

every creature tremble.



“I will exile the deposed king,” said Philippe, shuddering; “‘twill be

more human.”



“The king’s good pleasure will decide the point,” said Aramis. “But has

the problem been well put? Have I brought out of the solution according

to the wishes or the foresight of your royal highness?”



“Yes, monsieur, yes; you have forgotten nothing--except, indeed, two

things.”



“The first?”



“Let us speak of it at once, with the same frankness we have already

conversed in. Let us speak of the causes which may bring about the ruin

of all the hopes we have conceived. Let us speak of the risks we are

running.”



“They would be immense, infinite, terrific, insurmountable, if, as I

have said, all things did not concur to render them of absolutely no

account. There is no danger either for you or for me, if the constancy

and intrepidity of your royal highness are equal to that perfection of

resemblance to your brother which nature has bestowed upon you. I repeat

it, there are no dangers, only obstacles; a word, indeed, which I find

in all languages, but have always ill-understood, and, were I king,

would have obliterated as useless and absurd.”



“Yes, indeed, monsieur; there is a very serious obstacle, an

insurmountable danger, which you are forgetting.”



“Ah!” said Aramis.



“There is conscience, which cries aloud; remorse, that never dies.”



“True, true,” said the bishop; “there is a weakness of heart of which

you remind me. You are right, too, for that, indeed, is an immense

obstacle. The horse afraid of the ditch, leaps into the middle of it,

and is killed! The man who trembling crosses his sword with that of

another leaves loopholes whereby his enemy has him in his power.”



“Have you a brother?” said the young man to Aramis.



“I am alone in the world,” said the latter, with a hard, dry voice.





“Why, yes, D’Artagnan. And how do you like the place?”



“Very much, and I like M. Fouquet, also.”



“Is he not a charming host?”



“No one could be more so.”



“I am told that the king began by showing great distance of manner

towards M. Fouquet, but that his majesty grew much more cordial

afterwards.”



“You did not notice it, then, since you say you have been told so?”



“No; I was engaged with the gentlemen who have just left the room about

the theatrical performances and the tournaments which are to take place

to-morrow.”



“Ah, indeed! you are the comptroller-general of the _fetes_ here, then?”



“You know I am a friend of all kinds of amusement where the exercise of

the imagination is called into activity; I have always been a poet in

one way or another.”



“Yes, I remember the verses you used to write, they were charming.”



“I have forgotten them, but I am delighted to read the verses of others,

when those others are known by the names of Moliere, Pelisson, La

Fontaine, etc.”



“Do you know what idea occurred to me this evening, Aramis?”



“No; tell me what it was, for I should never be able to guess it, you

have so many.”



“Well, the idea occurred to me, that the true king of France is not

Louis XIV.”



“_What!_” said Aramis, involuntarily, looking the musketeer full in the

eyes.



“No, it is Monsieur Fouquet.”



Aramis breathed again, and smiled. “Ah! you are like all the rest,

jealous,” he said. “I would wager that it was M. Colbert who turned

that pretty phrase.” D’Artagnan, in order to throw Aramis off his guard,

related Colbert’s misadventures with regard to the _vin de Melun_.



“He comes of a mean race, does Colbert,” said Aramis.



“Quite true.”



“When I think, too,” added the bishop, “that that fellow will be your

minister within four months, and that you will serve him as blindly as

you did Richelieu or Mazarin--”

bitterness of anger, almost weeping, and half-suffocated, he threw

himself on his bed, dressed as he was, and bit the sheets in his

extremity of passion, trying to find repose of body at least there. The

bed creaked beneath his weight, and with the exception of a few broken

sounds, emerging, or, one might say, exploding, from his overburdened

chest, absolute silence soon reigned in the chamber of Morpheus.







Chapter XVII. High Treason.



The ungovernable fury which took possession of the king at the sight and

at the perusal of Fouquet’s letter to La Valliere by degrees subsided

into a feeling of pain and extreme weariness. Youth, invigorated by

health and lightness of spirits, requiring soon that what it loses

should be immediately restored--youth knows not those endless, sleepless

nights which enable us to realize the fable of the vulture unceasingly

feeding on Prometheus. In cases where the man of middle life, in his

acquired strength of will and purpose, and the old, in their state of

natural exhaustion, find incessant augmentation of their bitter sorrow,

a young man, surprised by the sudden appearance of misfortune, weakens

himself in sighs, and groans, and tears, directly struggling with his

grief, and is thereby far sooner overthrown by the inflexible enemy with

whom he is engaged. Once overthrown, his struggles cease. Louis could

not hold out more than a few minutes, at the end of which he had ceased

to clench his hands, and scorch in fancy with his looks the invisible

objects of his hatred; he soon ceased to attack with his violent

imprecations not M. Fouquet alone, but even La Valliere herself; from

fury he subsided into despair, and from despair to prostration. After he

had thrown himself for a few minutes to and fro convulsively on his

bed, his nerveless arms fell quietly down; his head lay languidly on

his pillow; his limbs, exhausted with excessive emotion, still trembled

occasionally, agitated by muscular contractions; while from his breast

faint and infrequent sighs still issued. Morpheus, the tutelary deity of

the apartment, towards whom Louis raised his eyes, wearied by his anger

and reconciled by his tears, showered down upon him the sleep-inducing


through and by my means--formed in my honor a concert of praise and

kindly actions. In the least disfavor, these humbler voices accompanied

in harmonious accents the murmur of my own heart. Isolation I have never

yet known. Poverty (a phantom I have sometimes beheld, clad in rags,

awaiting me at the end of my journey through life)--poverty has been the

specter with which many of my own friends have trifled for years past,

which they poetize and caress, and which has attracted me towards them.

Poverty! I accept it, acknowledge it, receive it, as a disinherited

sister; for poverty is neither solitude, nor exile, nor imprisonment.

Is it likely I shall ever be poor, with such friends as Pelisson, as

La Fontaine, as Moliere? with such a mistress as--Oh! if you knew how

utterly lonely and desolate I feel at this moment, and how you, who

separate me from all I love, seem to resemble the image of solitude, of

annihilation--death itself.”



“But I have already told you, Monsieur Fouquet,” replied D’Artagnan,

moved to the depths of his soul, “that you are woefully exaggerating.

The king likes you.”



“No, no,” said Fouquet, shaking his head.



“M. Colbert hates you.”



“M. Colbert! What does that matter to me?”



“He will ruin you.”



“Ah! I defy him to do that, for I am ruined already.”



At this singular confession of the superintendent, D’Artagnan cast

his glance all round the room; and although he did not open his lips,

Fouquet understood him so thoroughly, that he added: “What can be done

with such wealth of substance as surrounds us, when a man can no longer

cultivate his taste for the magnificent? Do you know what good the

greater part of the wealth and the possessions which we rich enjoy,

confer upon us? merely to disgust us, by their very splendor even, with

everything which does not equal it! Vaux! you will say, and the wonders

of Vaux! What of it? What boot these wonders? If I am ruined, how shall

I fill with water the urns which my Naiads bear in their arms, or

force the air into the lungs of my Tritons? To be rich enough, Monsieur

know M. Colbert.”



Fouquet raised his head immediately--his features were pale and

distorted. The bolt had hit its mark--not his heart, but his mind and

comprehension.



“I understand you,” he said to Aramis; “you are proposing a conspiracy

to me?”



“Something like it.”



“One of those attempts which, as you said at the beginning of this

conversation, alters the fate of empires?”



“And of superintendents, too; yes, monseigneur.”



“In a word, you propose that I should agree to the substitution of the

son of Louis XIII., who is now a prisoner in the Bastile, for the son of

Louis XIII., who is at this moment asleep in the Chamber of Morpheus?”



Aramis smiled with the sinister expression of the sinister thought which

was passing through his brain. “Exactly,” he said.



“Have you thought,” continued Fouquet, becoming animated with that

strength of talent which in a few seconds originates, and matures the

conception of a plan, and with that largeness of view which foresees all

consequences, and embraces every result at a glance--“have you thought

that we must assemble the nobility, the clergy, and the third estate

of the realm; that we shall have to depose the reigning sovereign, to

disturb by so frightful a scandal the tomb of their dead father, to

sacrifice the life, the honor of a woman, Anne of Austria, the life and

peace of mind and heart of another woman, Maria Theresa; and suppose

that it were all done, if we were to succeed in doing it--”



“I do not understand you,” continued Aramis, coldly. “There is not a

single syllable of sense in all you have just said.”



“What!” said the superintendent, surprised, “a man like you refuse to

view the practical bearing of the case! Do you confine yourself to the

childish delight of a political illusion, and neglect the chances of its

being carried into execution; in other words, the reality itself, is it

possible?”



“My friend,” said Aramis, emphasizing the word with a kind of disdainful

familiarity, “what does Heaven do in order to substitute one king for


“I am at your majesty’s orders,” replied Fouquet, with a low bow; “but

I think that your majesty can hardly dispense with changing your clothes

previous to appearing before your court.”



“We shall pass by the Louvre,” said the king. “Come.” And they left the

prison, passing before Baisemeaux, who looked completely bewildered as

he saw Marchiali once more leave; and, in his helplessness, tore out

the major portion of his few remaining hairs. It was perfectly true,

however, that Fouquet wrote and gave him an authority for the prisoner’s

release, and that the king wrote beneath it, “Seen and approved, Louis”;

a piece of madness that Baisemeaux, incapable of putting two ideas

together, acknowledged by giving himself a terrible blow on the forehead

with his own fist.







Chapter XXIV. The False King.



In the meantime, usurped royalty was playing out its part bravely at

Vaux. Philippe gave orders that for his _petit lever_ the _grandes

entrees_, already prepared to appear before the king, should be

introduced. He determined to give this order notwithstanding the absence

of M. d’Herblay, who did not return--our readers know the reason. But

the prince, not believing that absence could be prolonged, wished,

as all rash spirits do, to try his valor and his fortune far from all

protection and instruction. Another reason urged him to this--Anne of

Austria was about to appear; the guilty mother was about to stand in the

presence of her sacrificed son. Philippe was not willing, if he had a

weakness, to render the man a witness of it before whom he was bound

thenceforth to display so much strength. Philippe opened his folding

doors, and several persons entered silently. Philippe did not stir

whilst his _valets de chambre_ dressed him. He had watched, the evening

before, all the habits of his brother, and played the king in such a

manner as to awaken no suspicion. He was thus completely dressed in

hunting costume when he received his visitors. His own memory and

the notes of Aramis announced everybody to him, first of all Anne of

Austria, to whom Monsieur gave his hand, and then Madame with M. de

penetrated by it, and replied to him by a severe look. Raoul

comprehended it all; he recovered his calmness, and was so guarded, that

not another word escaped him. The duke at length rose, on observing the

advanced hour, and said, with animation, “I am in great haste, but if I

am told I have lost time in talking with a friend, I will reply I have

gained--on the balance--a most excellent recruit.”



“Pardon me, monsieur le duc,” interrupted Raoul, “do not tell the king

so, for it is not the king I wish to serve.”



“Eh! my friend, whom, then, will you serve? The times are past when

you might have said, ‘I belong to M. de Beaufort.’ No, nowadays, we all

belong to the king, great or small. Therefore, if you serve on board my

vessels, there can be nothing equivocal about it, my dear vicomte; it

will be the king you will serve.”



Athos waited with a kind of impatient joy for the reply about to be made

to this embarrassing question by Raoul, the intractable enemy of the

king, his rival. The father hoped that the obstacle would overcome the

desire. He was thankful to M. de Beaufort, whose lightness or generous

reflection had thrown an impediment in the way of the departure of a

son, now his only joy. But Raoul, still firm and tranquil, replied:

“Monsieur le duc, the objection you make I have already considered in my

mind. I will serve on board your vessels, because you do me the honor

to take me with you; but I shall there serve a more powerful master than

the king: I shall serve God!”



“God! how so?” said the duke and Athos together.



“My intention is to make profession, and become a knight of Malta,”

 added Bragelonne, letting fall, one by one, words more icy than the

drops which fall from the bare trees after the tempests of winter. [4]



Under this blow Athos staggered and the prince himself was moved.

Grimaud uttered a heavy groan, and let fall the bottle, which was broken

without anybody paying attention. M. de Beaufort looked the young man in


_chasse-maree_ come from Toulon under orders. The impression they

experienced on landing was a singularly pleasing one. The island seemed

loaded with flowers and fruits. In its cultivated part it served as a

garden for the governor. Orange, pomegranate, and fig trees bent beneath

the weight of their golden or purple fruits. All round this garden, in

the uncultivated parts, red partridges ran about in conveys among the

brambles and tufts of junipers, and at every step of the comte and Raoul

a terrified rabbit quitted his thyme and heath to scuttle away to the

burrow. In fact, this fortunate isle was uninhabited. Flat, offering

nothing but a tiny bay for the convenience of embarkation, and under the

protection of the governor, who went shares with them, smugglers made

use of it as a provisional _entrepot_, at the expense of not killing the

game or devastating the garden. With this compromise, the governor was

in a situation to be satisfied with a garrison of eight men to guard his

fortress, in which twelve cannons accumulated coats of moldy green. The

governor was a sort of happy farmer, harvesting wines, figs, oil,

and oranges, preserving his citrons and _cedrates_ in the sun of his

casemates. The fortress, encircled by a deep ditch, its only guardian,

arose like three heads upon turrets connected with each other by

terraces covered with moss.



Athos and Raoul wandered for some time round the fences of the garden

without finding any one to introduce them to the governor. They ended by

making their own way into the garden. It was at the hottest time of

the day. Each living thing sought its shelter under grass or stone. The

heavens spread their fiery veils as if to stifle all noises, to envelop

all existences; the rabbit under the broom, the fly under the leaf,

slept as the wave did beneath the heavens. Athos saw nothing living but

a soldier, upon the terrace beneath the second and third court, who was

carrying a basket of provisions on his head. This man returned almost

immediately without his basket, and disappeared in the shade of his

sentry-box. Athos supposed he must have been carrying dinner to some

forever beneath a mask of steel, exiled to a country where the men

seemed little more than slaves of the elements; Philippe, deprived

even of the society of D’Artagnan, who had loaded him with honors and

delicate attentions, had nothing more to see than odious specters in

this world, and, despair beginning to devour him, he poured himself

forth in complaints, in the belief that his revelations would raise up

some avenger for him. The manner in which the musketeer had been near

killing his two best friends, the destiny which had so strangely brought

Athos to participate in the great state secret, the farewell of Raoul,

the obscurity of the future which threatened to end in a melancholy

death; all this threw D’Artagnan incessantly back on lamentable

predictions and forebodings, which the rapidity of his pace did not

dissipate, as it used formerly to do. D’Artagnan passed from these

considerations to the remembrance of the proscribed Porthos and Aramis.

He saw them both, fugitives, tracked, ruined--laborious architects of

fortunes they had lost; and as the king called for his man of execution

in hours of vengeance and malice, D’Artagnan trembled at the very

idea of receiving some commission that would make his very soul bleed.

Sometimes, ascending hills, when the winded horse breathed hard from his

red nostrils, and heaved his flanks, the captain, left to more freedom

of thought, reflected on the prodigious genius of Aramis, a genius of

acumen and intrigue, a match to which the Fronde and the civil war had

produced but twice. Soldier, priest, diplomatist; gallant, avaricious,

cunning; Aramis had never taken the good things of this life except

as stepping-stones to rise to giddier ends. Generous in spirit, if not

lofty in heart, he never did ill but for the sake of shining even

yet more brilliantly. Towards the end of his career, at the moment of

reaching the goal, like the patrician Fuscus, he had made a false step

upon a plank, and had fallen into the sea. But Porthos, good, harmless

Porthos! To see Porthos hungry, to see Mousqueton without gold lace,

imprisoned, perhaps; to see Pierrefonds, Bracieux, razed to the very

stones, dishonored even to the timber,--these were so many poignant


Gourville started, and mounted to the deck, in order to obtain a better

view.



Fouquet did not go up with him, but said to Gourville, with restrained

mistrust: “See what it is, dear friend.”



The lighter had just passed the elbow. It came on so fast, that behind

it might be plainly seen the white wake illumined with the fires of the

day.



“How they go,” repeated the skipper, “how they go! They must be well

paid! I did not think,” he added, “that oars of wood could behave better

than ours, but yonder oarsmen prove the contrary.”



“Well they may,” said one of the rowers, “they are twelve, and we but

eight.”



“Twelve rowers!” replied Gourville, “twelve! impossible.”



The number of eight rowers for a lighter had never been exceeded, even

for the king. This honor had been paid to monsieur le surintendant, more

for the sake of haste than of respect.



“What does it mean?” said Gourville, endeavoring to distinguish beneath

the tent, which was already apparent, travelers which the most piercing

eye could not yet have succeeded in discovering.



“They must be in a hurry, for it is not the king,” said the patron.



Fouquet shuddered.



“By what sign do you know that it is not the king?” said Gourville.



“In the first place, because there is no white flag with fleurs-de-lis,

which the royal lighter always carries.”



“And then,” said Fouquet, “because it is impossible it should be the

king, Gourville, as the king was still in Paris yesterday.”



Gourville replied to the surintendant by a look which said: “You were

there yourself yesterday.”



“And by what sign do you make out they are in such haste?” added he, for

the sake of gaining time.



“By this, monsieur,” said the patron; “these people must have set out a

long while after us, and they have already nearly overtaken us.”



“Bah!” said Gourville, “who told you that they do not come from

Beaugency or from Moit even?”



“We have seen no lighter of that shape, except at Orleans. It comes from



“I would rather die!” replied Fouquet; “I shall suffer less.”



D’Artagnan, drunk with despair, hurled his pistol to the ground. “I

will take you alive!” said he; and by a prodigy of skill which this

incomparable horseman alone was capable, he threw his horse forward to

within ten paces of the white horse; already his hand was stretched out

to seize his prey.



“Kill me! kill me!” cried Fouquet, “‘twould be more humane!”



“No! alive--alive!” murmured the captain.



At this moment his horse made a false step for the second time, and

Fouquet’s again took the lead. It was an unheard-of spectacle, this

race between two horses which now only kept alive by the will of their

riders. It might be said that D’Artagnan rode, carrying his horse along

between his knees. To the furious gallop had succeeded the fast trot,

and that had sunk to what might be scarcely called a trot at all.

But the chase appeared equally warm in the two fatigued _athletoe_.

D’Artagnan, quite in despair, seized his second pistol, and cocked it.



“At your horse! not at you!” cried he to Fouquet. And he fired. The

animal was hit in the quarters--he made a furious bound, and plunged

forward. At that moment D’Artagnan’s horse fell dead.



“I am dishonored!” thought the musketeer; “I am a miserable wretch! for

pity’s sake, M. Fouquet, throw me one of your pistols, that I may blow

out my brains!” But Fouquet rode away.



“For mercy’s sake! for mercy’s sake!” cried D’Artagnan; “that which you

will not do at this moment, I myself will do within an hour, but here,

upon this road, I should die bravely; I should die esteemed; do me that

service, M. Fouquet!”



M. Fouquet made no reply, but continued to trot on. D’Artagnan began to

run after his enemy. Successively he threw away his hat, his coat, which

embarrassed him, and then the sheath of his sword, which got between his

legs as he was running. The sword in his hand itself became too heavy,

and he threw it after the sheath. The white horse began to rattle in




And upon this sublime reflection, Porthos pressed his friend’s hand

cordially.



In presence of this ingenuous greatness of soul, Aramis felt his own

littleness. It was the second time he had been compelled to bend before

real superiority of heart, which is more imposing than brilliancy of

mind. He replied by a mute and energetic pressure to the endearment of

his friend.



“Now,” said Porthos, “that we have come to an explanation, now that I am

perfectly aware of our situation with respect to Louis XIV., I think, my

friend, it is time to make me comprehend the political intrigue of which

we are the victims--for I plainly see there is a political intrigue at

the bottom of all this.”



“D’Artagnan, my good Porthos, D’Artagnan is coming, and will detail it

to you in all its circumstances; but, excuse me, I am deeply grieved, I

am bowed down with mental anguish, and I have need of all my presence

of mind, all my powers of reflection, to extricate you from the false

position in which I have so imprudently involved you; but nothing can be

more clear, nothing more plain, than your position, henceforth. The king

Louis XIV. has no longer now but one enemy: that enemy is myself,

myself alone. I have made you a prisoner, you have followed me, to-day

I liberate you, you fly back to your prince. You can perceive, Porthos,

there is not one difficulty in all this.”



“Do you think so?” said Porthos.



“I am quite sure of it.”



“Then why,” said the admirable good sense of Porthos, “then why, if

we are in such an easy position, why, my friend, do we prepare cannon,

muskets, and engines of all sorts? It seems to me it would be much

more simple to say to Captain d’Artagnan: ‘My dear friend, we have been

mistaken; that error is to be repaired; open the door to us, let us pass

through, and we will say good-bye.’”



“Ah! that!” said Aramis, shaking his head.



“Why do you say ‘that’? Do you not approve of my plan, my friend?”

“It is a pack of hounds,” said Porthos; “the dogs are on a scent.”



“Who can be hunting at such a moment as this?” said Aramis.



“And this way, particularly,” continued Porthos, “where they might

expect the army of the royalists.”



“The noise comes nearer. Yes, you are right, Porthos, the dogs are on a

scent. But, Yves!” cried Aramis, “come here! come here!”



Yves ran towards him, letting fall the cylinder which he was about to

place under the boat when the bishop’s call interrupted him.



“What is the meaning of this hunt, skipper?” said Porthos.



“Eh! monseigneur, I cannot understand it,” replied the Breton. “It is

not at such a moment that the Seigneur de Locmaria would hunt. No, and

yet the dogs--”



“Unless they have escaped from the kennel.”



“No,” said Goenne, “they are not the Seigneur de Locmaria’s hounds.”



“In common prudence,” said Aramis, “let us go back into the grotto; the

voices evidently draw nearer, we shall soon know what we have to trust

to.”



They re-entered, but had scarcely proceeded a hundred steps in the

darkness, when a noise like the hoarse sigh of a creature in distress

resounded through the cavern, and breathless, rapid, terrified, a fox

passed like a flash of lightning before the fugitives, leaped over

the boat and disappeared, leaving behind its sour scent, which was

perceptible for several seconds under the low vaults of the cave.



“The fox!” cried the Bretons, with the glad surprise of born hunters.



“Accursed mischance!” cried the bishop, “our retreat is discovered.”



“How so?” said Porthos; “are you afraid of a fox?”



“Eh! my friend, what do you mean by that? why do you specify the fox? It

is not the fox alone. _Pardieu!_ But don’t you know, Porthos, that after

the foxes come hounds, and after hounds men?”



Porthos hung his head. As though to confirm the words of Aramis, they

heard the yelping pack approach with frightful swiftness upon the trail.

Six foxhounds burst at once upon the little heath, with mingling yelps


they will sink us?”



“But, perhaps,” the patron ventured to say, “perhaps under cover of

night, we could escape them.”



“Oh!” said Aramis, “they have, no doubt, Greek fire with which to

lighten their own course and ours likewise.”



At the same moment, as if the vessel was responsive to the appeal of

Aramis, a second cloud of smoke mounted slowly to the heavens, and from

the bosom of that cloud sparkled an arrow of flame, which described a

parabola like a rainbow, and fell into the sea, where it continued to

burn, illuminating a space of a quarter of a league in diameter.



The Bretons looked at each other in terror. “You see plainly,” said

Aramis, “it will be better to wait for them.”



The oars dropped from the hands of the sailors, and the bark, ceasing

to make way, rocked motionless upon the summits of the waves. Night came

on, but still the ship drew nearer. It might be imagined it redoubled

its speed with darkness. From time to time, as a vulture rears its head

out of its nest, the formidable Greek fire darted from its sides, and

cast its flame upon the ocean like an incandescent snowfall. At last

it came within musket-shot. All the men were on deck, arms in hand; the

cannoniers were at their guns, the matches burning. It might be thought

they were about to board a frigate and to fight a crew superior in

number to their own, not to attempt the capture of a canoe manned by

four people.



“Surrender!” cried the commander of the _balancelle_, with the aid of

his speaking-trumpet.



The sailors looked at Aramis. Aramis made a sign with his head. Yves

waved a white cloth at the end of a gaff. This was like striking their

flag. The pursuer came on like a race-horse. It launched a fresh Greek

fire, which fell within twenty paces of the little canoe, and threw a

light upon them as white as sunshine.



“At the first sign of resistance,” cried the commander of the

_balancelle_, “fire!” The soldiers brought their muskets to the present.

Chevalier d’Artagnan, captain of the king’s musketeers, whatever the

said Chevalier d’Artagnan may demand of my property. On condition that

M. le Vicomte de Bragelonne do pay a good pension to M. le Chevalier

d’Herblay, my friend, if he should need it in exile. I leave to my

intendant Mousqueton all of my clothes, of city, war, or chase, to the

number of forty-seven suits, in the assurance that he will wear them

till they are worn out, for the love of and in remembrance of his

master. Moreover, I bequeath to M. le Vicomte de Bragelonne my old

servant and faithful friend Mousqueton, already named, providing that

the said vicomte shall so act that Mousqueton shall declare, when dying,

he has never ceased to be happy.”



On hearing these words, Mousqueton bowed, pale and trembling; his

shoulders shook convulsively; his countenance, compressed by a frightful

grief, appeared from between his icy hands, and the spectators saw him

stagger and hesitate, as if, though wishing to leave the hall, he did

not know the way.



“Mousqueton, my good friend,” said D’Artagnan, “go and make your

preparations. I will take you with me to Athos’s house, whither I shall

go on leaving Pierrefonds.”



Mousqueton made no reply. He scarcely breathed, as if everything in that

hall would from that time be foreign. He opened the door, and slowly

disappeared.



The procureur finished his reading, after which the greater part

of those who had come to hear the last will of Porthos dispersed by

degrees, many disappointed, but all penetrated with respect. As

for D’Artagnan, thus left alone, after having received the formal

compliments of the procureur, he was lost in admiration of the wisdom of

the testator, who had so judiciously bestowed his wealth upon the most

necessitous and the most worthy, with a delicacy that neither nobleman

nor courtier could have displayed more kindly. When Porthos enjoined

Raoul de Bragelonne to give D’Artagnan all that he would ask, he knew

well, our worthy Porthos, that D’Artagnan would ask or take nothing; and

in case he did demand anything, none but himself could say what. Porthos

left a pension to Aramis, who, if he should be inclined to ask too much,




But this officer was mistaken; D’Artagnan in the last four years had

lived a dozen. Age had printed its pitiless claws at each angle of his

eyes; his brow was bald; his hands, formerly brown and nervous, were

getting white, as if the blood had half forgotten them.



D’Artagnan accosted the officers with the shade of affability which

distinguishes superiors, and received in turn for his courtesy two most

respectful bows.



“Ah! what a lucky chance to see you here, Monsieur d’Artagnan!” cried

the falconer.



“It is rather I who should say that, messieurs,” replied the captain,

“for nowadays, the king makes more frequent use of his musketeers than

of his falcons.”



“Ah! it is not as it was in the good old times,” sighed the falconer.

“Do you remember, Monsieur d’Artagnan, when the late king flew the pie

in the vineyards beyond Beaugence? Ah! _dame!_ you were not the captain

of the musketeers at that time, Monsieur d’Artagnan.” [7]



“And you were nothing but under-corporal of the tiercelets,” replied

D’Artagnan, laughing. “Never mind that, it was a good time, seeing

that it is always a good time when we are young. Good day, monsieur the

keeper of the harriers.”



“You do me honor, monsieur le comte,” said the latter. D’Artagnan made

no reply. The title of comte had hardly struck him; D’Artagnan had been

a comte four years.



“Are you not very much fatigued with the long journey you have taken,

monsieur le capitaine?” continued the falconer. “It must be full two

hundred leagues from hence to Pignerol.”



“Two hundred and sixty to go, and as many to return,” said D’Artagnan,

quietly.



“And,” said the falconer, “is _he_ well?”



“Who?” asked D’Artagnan.



“Why, poor M. Fouquet,” continued the falconer, in a low voice. The

keeper of the harriers had prudently withdrawn.



“No,” replied D’Artagnan, “the poor man frets terribly; he cannot

comprehend how imprisonment can be a favor; he says that parliament

absolved him by banishing him, and banishment is, or should be, liberty.

He cannot imagine that they had sworn his death, and that to save his

