  IV. THE GERMAN    V. INTO THE BUSH    VI. IN THE NIGHT WATCH    VII. COLD STEEL    VII. THE DOUBLE-CROSS    IX. FIDDLERS THREE    X. BY THE LIGHT OF STORM    XI. OUT OF THE AIR    XII. THE ARROW    XIII. THE WAY OF THE JUNGLE    XIV. A DUEL WITH DEATH    XV. THE CANNIBALS    XVI. BLACKBEARD    XVII. FEVER    XIX. FRUIT OF THE TRAP    XIX. THE RED BONES    XX. THE RAPOSA    XXI. SHADOWS OF THE NIGHT    XXII. THE SIREN OF WAR    XXIII. STRATEGY    XXIV. THE BATTLE OF THE TRIBES    XXV. THE PASSING OF SCHWANDORF    XXVI. PARTNERS          THE PATHLESS TRAIL          CHAPTER I.    SONS OF THE NORTH      Three men stood ankle deep in mud on the shore of a jungle river,  silently watching a ribbon of smoke drift and dissolve above the somber  mass of trees to the northwest.    Three men of widely different types they were, yet all cradled in the  same far-off northern land. The tallest, lean bodied but broad  shouldered, black of hair and gray of eye, held himself in soldierly  fashion and gazed unmoved. His two mates--one stocky, red faced and red  headed; the other slender, bronzed and blond--betrayed their thoughts in 
 face. We go wherever it is necessary."    "I am sorry. I regret also that I can give you no definite information.  Yet I wish you all success, senhores, and a safe return. This much I can  do and gladly will do: I can send word to another white man who now is  in the town and who knows much of the upper river. He may be able to  assist you, and without doubt will be eager to do so. He is staying at  the hotel, just below here--Senhor Schwandorf."    The eyes of the two Americans narrowed. The official coughed.    "Senhor McKay has been a soldier. And Senhor Knowlton--"    "I was a lieutenant."    "Ah! But the war has passed, senhores. Senhor Schwandorf was not a  soldier of Germany--he has been in Brazil for more than six years."    "War's over. That's right," McKay agreed. "But don't bother to send  word. We'll find him if he's at the hotel. Going there ourselves. Glad  to have met you, sir. Good luck!"    "And to you also luck, Capitao and Tenente," smiled the official. McKay  and Knowlton strode out.    "Guess this is the hotel," hazarded McKay, glancing at a house which  rose slightly above the others. "I'll go in and charter rooms. You get  Tim and have somebody rustle our impedimenta up here."    He turned aside. Knowlton trudged on through the glare of sunset to the  river bank where Tim and the army of Remate de Males still loafed up and  down, the admired of all beholders.    "All right, Tim. We're moving to the hotel. No more war, I see."    "Lord love ye, no," grinned Tim. "Me and this feller are gittin' on  fine. He's Joey--I forgit the rest of his names; he's got about a dozen  more and they sound like stones rattlin' around inside a can. But Joey's  a right guy. After me tour o' duty ends he's goin' to buy me a drink and  maybe introjuce me to a lady friend o' his. Want to join the party,  Looey?"    "Not unless the ladies are better looking than these," laughed the 
  "This one is a man. Green eyes, streak of white hair over the left ear.  Paints himself like the Red Bones, as you call them, but is a white  man."    "Oh! That one? Heard of him, yes. Wild man of the jungle. Want to catch  him and put him in a circus?"    "Maybe. We'd like to see him, anyhow. Heard about him awhile ago. Any  way to get him that you know of?"    "Might try a steel trap," the German suggested, callously. "But I don't  know where you'd set it. Best way to get a wild dog is to shoot him, and  he isn't much good dead. Or would this one be worth something--dead?" A  swift sidelong glance accompanied the question.    "Not a cent!" snapped McKay.    "And perhaps he'd be worth nothing alive," added Knowlton. "But we have  a healthy curiosity to look him over. Guess the Red Bone country would  be the likeliest place. How far is it from here?"    "Keep out of it," was the stubborn reply.    The Americans rose.    "We are not going to keep out of it," Knowlton declared, coldly. "We are  going straight into it. Thank you for your assistance."    "Not so fast," Schwandorf protested. "If you are determined to go I will  help you if I can. Shall we sit on the piazza with a small bottle to aid  digestion? So! Thomaz! Bring from my stock the kümmel. Or would you  prefer whisky, gentlemen?"    "Ginger-ale highballs are my favorite fruit," admitted Knowlton. "Can  ginger ale be bought here?"    "Indeed yes. At one milrei a bottle."    "Cheap enough. Thomaz, three bottles of ginger ale and one of North  American whisky--the best. Cigars also. Out on the piazza."    "Si, senhores."    Schwandorf got up.    "If you will pardon me, I will drink my kümmel. Frankly, I do not like  whisky."    "And frankly, we do not like kümmel. All a matter of taste."    "Truly. So let each of us drink his own preference. I will join you in a 
 "If this here, now, Javary fever ain't catchin', how does a feller git  it?"    "Mosquitoes," McKay enlightened him. "The _anopheles_. It bites a man  who has fever, then bites a well man and leaves the fever in him. Inside  of ten days he's sick, unless he takes a huge dose of quinine right  away. Mosquito attacks perpendicular to the skin. That is, it stands on  its head. If you ever notice one of them biting that way get busy with  the quinine."    "Huh! Fat chance a feller's got o' seein' just how all these bugs bite  him. And one muskeeter standin' on its head does all that, hey?"    "So they say. Also they say it's only the female that bites."    "Yeah. I believe it. I been stung more 'n once by females before now.  How about the yeller fever? Git that the same way?"    "Same way, only a different mosquito--the _stegomyia_. When you begin to  vomit black you're gone. And if you get beriberi you're gone, too. First  symptoms of that are numbness of the fingers and toes. Muscular  paralysis goes on until your heart stops."    "Uh-huh. Nice cheerful place to die in, this Ammyzon jungle. Aw well,  what's the odds?"    Wherewith he inhaled more coffee, flipped his cigarette butt at a small  lizard on the floor not far away, yawned once more, and swaggered out to  the piazza, bawling:    "And when I die  Don't bury me a-tall,  But pickle me bones  In alky-hawl--"    When his roar had subsided and the two former officers had sat silent a  moment, smiling over his nocturnal adventures, the door of Schwandorf's  room opened abruptly and the German stepped out.    "_Morgen_," he grunted, striding to the table. "Thomaz!"    "_Si_, Senhor Sssondoff." The youth faded away into the kitchen  quarters.    "Always feel grumpy until I eat," grumbled the blackbeard. "None of this  coffee-cigarette breakfast for me. A real meal, coffee with gin in it, a  cigar--then I feel human. Sleep well?" 
hammock, where he was comparatively safe--looked askance at it when told  what it was, and was only partly reassured by the information that  termites were eaters of wood rather than of flesh. After sleep had  embraced the rest of the camp he still was uneasy, lifting his net at  long intervals and squinting at the moonlit mound as if expecting a  horde of pincer-jawed insects to erupt from it and charge him. And  during one of these inspections he saw something totally unexpected.    From the black shadows of the forest had emerged another shadow, so  grotesque and misshapen that it seemed a figment of indigestion and  weird dreams--a thing from whose shaggy body protruded what appeared to  be only a long tubular snout where a head should be, and which looked to  be overbalanced at the other end by a great mass of hair. It stood stone  still, and for the moment Tim could not decide which end of it was head  and which was tail, or even whether it were not double-tailed and  headless. Then, slowly, the apparition moved.    Into that hard-packed earth it dug huge hooked claws, and from its  tapering muzzle a wormlike tongue licked about, gathering the outrushing  white ants into its gullet. For minutes Tim lay blinking at it,  wondering if he really saw it.    Then, picking up his rifle, he slipped outside his net and advanced on  the creature.    The animal turned, sat back on its great tail, lifted its terrible  claws, and waited. Six feet away, just out of its reach, Tim stopped and  stared anew. Then he grinned.    "You win, feller," he informed the beast. "What ye are I dunno, but any  critter that's got the guts to ramble right into camp and offer to gimme  a battle is too good a sport for me to shoot. Help yourself to all the  ants in the world, for all o' me. I'm goin' back to bed. Bon sewer,  monseer."    Wherewith, still grinning, but warily watching, he backed until sure the  big invader would not spring at him. Knowing nothing of ant bears, he  did not know it was hardly a springing animal. 
   The poised knife hissed through the air at José.    Out from the crew house shot a streak of fire and a smashing rifle  report.    José dodged, staggered, screeched in feline fury, the knife buried in  his left arm.    McKay grunted suddenly, fell, lay still.    "God!" yelled Tim. "Cap's gone! Clean 'em, Looey!"    With the words he leaped aside and pulled his pistol, just as another  rifle flare stabbed out from the other hut and a bullet whisked through  the space where he had stood. An instant later he was pouring a stream  of lead at the spot whence the burning powder had leaped.    Knives flashing, teeth gleaming, the other paddlers charged across the  ten-foot space between the huts.    José, his left arm helpless, but his deadly right hand still gripping  his knife, hurled himself on Julio, who had seized a machete from  somewhere.    Knowlton slammed a bullet between the eyes of the foremost _boga_, who  pitched headlong. He swung the muzzle to the other man's chest--yanked  at the trigger--got no response. The gun was jammed.    With a triumphant snarl the blood-crazed Peruvian closed in, slashing  for the throat. Knowlton slipped aside, evaded the thrust, swung the  pistol down hard on his assailant's head. The man reeled, thrust again  blindly, missed. Knowlton crashed his dumb gun down again. It struck  fair on the temple. The man collapsed.    Tim was charging across the open at the crew house. José and Julio were  locked in a death grapple. No other living man, except Knowlton, still  stood upright. Stooping, he peered into the red-dyed face of McKay. Then  he laid a hand on the captain's chest. Faint but regular, he felt the  heart beating.    "Thank God!" he breathed. With a wary eye on the battling Peruvians he  swiftly raised the captain and put him into Tim's hammock. As he turned  back to the fight Tim emerged from the other hut, carrying a body, which  he dropped and swiftly inspected. At the same moment the fight of José  and Julio ended.    With a choked scream Julio dropped, writhed, doubled up. Then he lay 
that black-bearded and black-hearted man suggested that you take  Mayoruna women? He told you they were shapely of body and tried to put  into your minds the thought of making them your paramours? The snake!    "He did not tell you, then, that the Mayoruna men allow no trifling with  their women; that any alien man attempting to embrace one of them would  be killed. But it is true. If you should succeed in establishing  friendly relations with the men--which is not at all likely--you would  forfeit all friendship, and your lives as well, by the slightest  dalliance with any of the women.    "He told you that more than one man has risked his life to win a  Mayoruna woman? That is true. But he gave you a false impression as to  the way in which the risk was incurred. He did not tell you that  Peruvian _caucheros_ have sometimes raided small isolated _melocas_ of  the Mayorunas, shooting down the men and carrying off the girls to be  victims of their bestial lust. He did not tell you that for this reason  any Peruvian is considered their enemy and is killed without mercy  wherever found. Yet he tried to send you with Peruvian guides into their  country. He knew the Peruvians would be killed on sight--and you with  them."          CHAPTER IX.    FIDDLERS THREE      Black looks passed among the men as the duplicity of Schwandorf lay  plain before their eyes. Tim growled. José hissed curses. The coronel  whirled to him.    "José! What was his object in trying to destroy you and your crew? You  have been his man. You know much about him. He wanted to stop your  mouth, yes? Dead men tell no tales."    The _puntero's_ eyes glittered. For a moment the others thought he was  about to reveal important secrets. Then his face changed.    "I know no reason why we should be killed," he declared.    "I do not believe you," the coronel declared, bluntly.    José shrugged, calmly drank the coronel's wine, lighted the coronel's  cigar, leaned back in the coronel's chair, and eyed the coronel with 
 command. Otherwise we are all on an equal footing."    "Just so," Lourenço agreed. "If it were otherwise you would still be  three men--not five. Since that is plain, let me say frankly that your  big canoe had best stay here, also everything you do not need in the  bush. Two light canoes are faster, easier to handle and to hide. Pedro  and I have our own canoe and will provide our own supplies. We will pick  out a three-man boat for you and load it with what you select from your  equipment. After that every man swings his own paddle."    "_Cada qual por si e Deus por todos._ Each for himself and God for us  all," Pedro summarized.    "That's the dope," applauded Tim. "Now say, Renzo, old feller, what d'ye  know about these here, now, Red Bones up above here? And have ye got  anything on that Raposy guy?"    Lourenço shook his head.    "I know little of the Red Bone people, for I have never met them. That  is one reason why I now should like to meet them. I have heard of them,  yes; and the things I have heard are not pleasant. Yet it may be that  the tales are worse than the people. I have also heard terrible stories  of the light-skinned cannibals, the Mayorunas; yet I have been among the  cannibals and found them not so bad--though it is true that they eat the  flesh of their enemies; I have seen it done. But it makes a very great  difference how they are approached and who the men are who approach  them. It is possible that we may go unharmed among even _los Ossos  Vermelhos_--the Red Bones. We shall see.    "Of the Raposa I think I do know something. I have seen him."    Everyone except Pedro sat up with a start.    "You have seen him?" exclaimed the coronel. "When? Where? How? Why have  you not spoken of it?"    "Because, Coronel, I forgot it until now. It meant nothing to us--yes,  Pedro was with me--except that it was one more queer thing in the bush.  In time I might have remembered it and told you. But you know we have 
  CHAPTER XII.    THE ARROW      Slowly, silently, two canoes glided along the still, dark water of a  gloomy creek over-arched by the interlaced limbs of lofty trees.    The first, propelled by the slow-dipping blades of two Brazilian  bushmen, seemed to be seeking something; for it nosed along with  frequent pauses of the paddles, during which it drifted almost to a stop  while its crew searched the solemn jungle depths reaching away from the  right-hand shore. The second, carrying three bronzed and bearded men of  another continent, was only trailing the leader. It moved and paused  like the first, but the recurrent scrutiny of the farther gloom by its  paddlers was that of men who saw only a meaningless, monotonous bulk of  buttresses and trunks and tangle of looping lianas. In this dimness and  bewildering chaos the trio might as well have been blind. The eyes of  the tiny fleet were in the first boat.    The progress of the dugouts was almost stealthy. Not a paddle thumped or  splashed, not a voice spoke. They moved with the alert caution born not  of fear, but of wary readiness for any sudden event--like prowling  jungle creatures which, themselves seeking quarry, must be ever on guard  lest they become the hunted instead of the hunters.    For the past two days they had moved thus. The last fresh meat had been  shot miles down the river, where a well-placed bullet from the rifle of  McKay had downed a fat swamp deer. Since that day not a gun had been  fired. The rations now were tough jerked beef and monkey meat, slabs of  salt pirarucu fish, and farinha, varied by tinned delicacies from the  stores of the Americans. Henceforth gunfire was taboo unless it should  become necessary in self-defense.    At length the fore canoe halted with an abruptness that told of back  strokes of the blades hidden under water. McKay, bowman of the trailing  craft, also backed water, while his mates held their paddles rigid. The  two boats drifted together.    "This is the place," Lourenço said, speaking low.    The Americans, scanning the shore, saw nothing to differentiate the spot 
 do the talking.    "Do not hold a gun in a threatening manner or draw pistols unless you  must fight. Then kill.    "Above all, pay no attention to their women.    "Now we go. I lead."    He turned and strode away into the fog as easily and surely as if  cat-eyed and cat-footed. Pedro swung nonchalantly after him. The others  followed in order, hitching at their backstraps.    The ghostly haze about them now was paler, but through the interstices  overhead came no glint of sunshine, nor even the glow of a clear dawn.  The whole sky evidently was overcast, and around the marching men the  gloom still lay thick. Yet Lourenço's eyes seemed to bore through the  shades and the dark shroud blurring the trunks, for his steady gait did  not falter. The little file hung close together, for all knew that any  man straggling would be instantly lost.    Worming around gigantic columns, crawling over rotting trunks long laid  low, changing direction abruptly when blocked by some great butt too  high to be scaled, sinking ankle-deep in clinging mud, the venturesome  band wound along through the wilderness. Repeated glances at his compass  showed McKay that the general trend of the march was southeast; but the  impassable obstacles encountered at frequent intervals necessitated not  only detours, but sometimes actual back-tracking.    "Walk four miles to advance one," was his thought. And for some time it  seemed that such was the case. But then the ground changed, the light  improved, the trees thinned, and the undergrowth became more dense--and,  paradoxically, the rate of progress improved.    This was because the smaller growth gave the two leaders a chance to cut  their way straight onward instead of dodging about; and cut they did.  Their machetes swung with untiring energy, opening a path through what  seemed an impenetrable tangle. Now every yard of movement was a yard  gained. But the ground was rising and the struggle up some of the sharp  slopes winded more than one man.    Then the slope dipped the other way, and they slipped down into a ravine  where water gleamed darkly. Here a halt was called while the leaders 
  "Yuara cannot live," was Yuara's cool reply. "Where once the poison has  entered, there follows death."    "Is Yuara then a coward, that he will die without a fight? Then he is no  Mayoruna, for no Mayoruna is a coward. Let Yuara die if he will. His  comrades shall carry to their _maloca_ the tale that, although the white  man would have saved him, he died like an old woman, because he had not  the will to live!"    Fire shot into the eyes of the prostrate man. He ground his teeth and  struggled to rise and throttle the insulting Brazilian.    "No, not that way," Lourenço went on at once. "Yuara can fight the death  demon only by drawing into himself the air in which is the spirit of  life. The wise white man has stopped the poison at the place where the  cloth is tied, and he knows the air spirits will help Yuara if Yuara  will breathe deep and long. If he will not, then the white man's  medicine cannot save him. Yuara's life or death is in his own hands."    In his heart Lourenço had faint hope that the injured man would live.  But he knew the rest of the cannibal tribe must soon hear the tale of  this incident from the three now present, and he was preparing an  excellent excuse for the failure of McKay to save him. Whether Yuara  lived or not, the Mayorunas now would know that the whites had done  their utmost for him, and that very fact might make a vast difference.    Yuara, though his eyes still flamed, sank back under McKay's restraining  weight and obeyed orders. After the first couple of breaths he settled  into his task and his chest rose and fell rhythmically.    "Here's yer salt, Cap. What'll I do with it?"    "You come here and hold this tourniquet. Don't let it slip! Merry, fill  this chap's mouth with salt. Lourenço, tell him to hold it as long as  possible, then swallow it. Now, Merry, fix up a good strong salt  poultice. The rest of you make camp. We've got a stiff fight on our  hands, and we can't go farther until we've either won or lost." 
   At length the chief turned his eyes to Lourenço. The veteran bushman  promptly stepped forward and said his say. At the end he turned, took  from McKay the knife, unrolled the belt, and dangled the weapon before  the eyes of the rulers. They stared at it in obvious ignorance of its  character. Not until the Brazilian drew the blade from its sheath and  the glint of steel struck their vision did they show recognition. Then  Chief Suba grunted, his little eyes lit up, and he reached for it.    For a few minutes he sat gloating over the gift, admiring the bone  handle, hefting the weight of the long blade, while the subchiefs gazed  in envy. When he looked up his face was beaming. But then the sour-faced  subchief at his left hand muttered something, and Suba's visage  darkened. His eyes rested again on McKay, went to the bandaged arm of  Yuara, dropped to his knife--the first steel knife ever owned by him or  any man of the Suba tribe--and rose again to the black-bearded captain.  Abruptly then he spoke out.    Lourenço stared in blank astonishment. After a puzzled moment he shook  his head as if unable to believe he had heard aright. Suba, scowling,  repeated what he had said. Lourenço shook his head again, this time in  vehement denial, and began to talk. But Suba, rising with surprising  agility for a man of his weight, stopped him imperiously and spoke with  finality. Slowly the Brazilian nodded and turned to his captain.    "I do not understand this, Capitao. But these are the words of the  chief:    "'The white man with the black beard tries a trick, but it does not  deceive the free men of the forest. The thing which he thinks to be  hidden in his own heart is known to Suba and his chiefs. It is known  also to the chief Monitaya, and to his chiefs, and to his men also. The  white man is bold. And now his own boldness shall be his death.    "'Since the white man has said he goes to visit the chief Monitaya, and  since by some demon's power the white man has saved the life of Yuara, 
safe place a day's march from the tribal house.    "A few weeks later another small _maloca_ several miles from here was  attacked at night while two men of Monitaya were there, having stayed  out too late on a hunting trip and taken refuge with their neighbors  until day. Both these men were hit and crippled by bullets in the wild  shooting that opened the attack. One was struck in the knee, the other  in the lower part of the back. But both caught a glimpse of the leader's  face and saw that he was the black-bearded man himself.    "So you see, Capitao, why we have been near death. Suba and Monitaya  both thought you were the man. We were lucky to escape alive from Suba,  and still more lucky that hero were two men who knew the face of the  blackbeard."    "Schwandorf!" barked McKay.    "Yes, Capitao, it must be the German--"    "I know it's Schwandorf! And I know his game! He's a slaver!"    "A slaver?"    "That's it. Knew I'd seen that sneak before. He worked the same game in  British Guiana eight years ago on a small scale. Had a gang of tough  bush niggers from over in Dutch Guiana to do his dirty work. Stole  Macusi girls--they're the best-looking Indians in B. G.--and sold them  like cattle to gold miners. Cleaned up quite a pot before the English  got on to him, but had to get out of the country on the hot foot--didn't  have time to take his gold with him. His name wasn't Schwandorf over  there, and he had no beard; he was thinner, too, and posed as a Russian;  but he's the man. Must have made his get-away by the back door--down the  Branco to the Amazon. Now he's running Mayoruna girls into Peru. He  could sell them to rubber men or miners and make good money, eh,  Lourenço?"    "_Si._"    "Sure. And that's why he wanted to kill off his Peruvians--they knew too  much; probably were trying to bleed him for hush money. He must have a  regular slave route and a gang of border cutthroats to do his 
 tones, peremptorily squelched him he insisted on at least going to the  door to watch his comrades start the journey from which they might or  might not return. Nor did he take advantage of his chance to hug the  girls on the way.    With one arm slung over the shoulders of a wiry young warrior who  grinned proudly at the honor of being selected to help a guest of the  great chief, he followed the departing column out into the sunshine,  where the entire tribe was assembled. And when the stalwart band had  filed into the shadows of the trees and vanished he stood for a time  unseeing and gulping at something in his throat.    Straight away along a vague path beginning at the rear of the _malocas_  marched the twenty-four, the two northerners bending under the weight of  their packs, the pair of Brazilians sweeping the jungle with practiced  eyes, the score of Mayorunas striding velvet footed, resplendent in  brilliant new paint and headdresses, armed with the most powerful  weapons of their tribe, and loftily conscious of the fact that they were  chosen as Monitaya's best. Savage and civilized, each man was fit,  alert, formidable. Nowhere in the loosely joined chain was a weak link.    Before the departure the Americans had been at some trouble to rid  themselves of Yuara, who, with his men, had tarried at the Monitaya  _malocas_ during Tim's sickness. While Knowlton was giving his ripped  arm a final dressing he had calmly announced his intention of joining  the expedition into the Red Bone country, and it had taken some skillful  argument by Lourenço to dissuade him without arousing his anger. All  four of the adventurers would gladly have taken him along had he not  been hampered by his injury, but, under the ruthless rule barring all  men not in possession of all their strength, he had to be left.    Now, as on the previous jungle marches, the way was led by two of the  tribesmen, followed by the Brazilians and the Americans, after whom the  main body of the escort strode in column. The leader and guide, one  Tucu, was a veteran hunter, fighter, and bushranger, who had been more 
prevent trouble is to make the other man realize what may happen to him  if he starts it. Also he has his orders from Monitaya to stay with us at  all times, and he will follow that order even if you, Capitao, try to  change it. Now we go together to the chief."    He nodded to Tucu, who grunted to the Red Bone leader. The hatchet-face  in turn shouted something to the men behind. Slowly they drew apart into  two groups.    "You are the leader, Capitao," suggested Lourenço. Promptly McKay  marched forward, head up, eyes front, face bleak. The rest followed,  Tucu falling in behind McKay when the captain passed him. Preceded by  the Red Bone spokesman, the line advanced between the two bodies of  copper-skins and swung along the evil-smelling avenue to its upper end.    There, in the very center of the loop joining the two rows of huts, was  a house twice as big as any other. From its doorway the inhabitant of  that house could watch the whole life of the Red Bone town. Obviously it  was the home of the chief. At its door a pair of warriors stood guard,  but of the ruler himself there was no sign.    Ten paces from it the thin-featured leader stopped and motioned to McKay  to halt. As the captain and the line behind him did so he stalked  onward, passed through the doorway, and faded from sight in the dimness  beyond. With one accord the members of the visiting party looked around  them.    The street behind now was filled with the mass of Red Bone warriors who  had trooped after the column. All exit in that direction was blockaded.  But the ex-officers noted that between the houses were spaces each wide  enough to hold a couple of men, and in an undertone McKay gave defensive  instructions to Lourenço.    "If fighting starts, have the Mayorunas take cover along these houses on  each side. We who have guns will use the chief's house. We can sweep the  whole street from there. You two fellows capture the chief alive if  possible. He'll be more useful as a hostage than as a corpse." 
 leave the camp and go upstream for a time. At this Tucu's eyes dwelt on  his, veered to the lights of the town, and returned. In them was a  plain, though unspoken, question. The bushman ignored it and strolled  back to his _tambo_.    The moon sailed higher. The animal uproar of early night began to  diminish. The fire, almost buried under slow-burning wood whose acrid  smoke alleviated the insect pests, smoldered dull red. McKay and  Knowlton drew lots for the first sleep, the captain winning and promptly  getting under his net. In the Mayoruna shelter all was dark and silent,  each man sleeping lightly with one hand on a weapon. The two Brazilians  also were out of sight in their hut.    Up and down, a barely distinguishable figure, Knowlton passed slowly  with holster unbuttoned and rifle cocked, eyes turning periodically to  the Red Bone outpost and ears intent to pick any unusual sound out of  the night noise. Gradually the small lights of the town faded out. To  all appearance, sleep had whelmed it for the night. The watchers on the  farther shore stirred a little at times, but the blot they made in the  moonshine remained fixed in the same spot. The only moving things were  the khaki-clad sentinel and the blazing fireflies.    Another hour rolled slowly by. The sentinel stopped and stood at a  corner of the _tambo_. Now was as good a time as any for the Brazilians  to start their perilous reconnaissance. Perhaps they had gone to sleep.  He squinted at their hammocks. Yes, they were occupied. Stepping softly  to the hammock of Pedro, he lifted the net to whisper to the occupant.  Then he stared, dropped the net, and lifted Lourenço's curtain. A soft,  self-derisive chuckle sounded in his throat as he stole out again.    The hammocks were occupied, yes; but only by packs and rifles. Armed  only with machetes, the two bushmen now were--where? He did not even  know when or which way they had gone. Fine sentinel, wasn't he, to let  two full-grown men sneak away right under his nose? And if they could  get out so slick, why couldn't somebody else--a murderous Red Bone, for 
And with the emptying of their long guns the Americans drew their short  ones, and in a concerted ripping crash the forty-fives volleyed death  and dismay into the oncoming cannibals.    The rush was checked. For a few seconds the Red Bones wavered and milled  about. Into their mass poured a cloud of arrows and blowgun darts from  the silent but no less deadly weapons of the Mayorunas. As the whites  paused to reload, Pedro opened a new blast from Lourenço's rifle, which  his comrade had passed to him on the run. Lourenço was not shooting, but  working madly and alone to save the equipment. And, thanks to the  renewed deadly fire of the guns, he saved it.    Before the wicked belch of the three rifles and the two automatics the  Red Bones gave back more and more. Their arrows plunged all around the  fighting men, but they fell at random, for the gunmen and the canoes  were virtually invisible in the deep shadows. Downstream, Tucu's harsh  voice jarred in commands as he straightened out the line of boats.    At the next lull in the firing Lourenço panted: "In, comrades! We are  loaded. In!"    "Great guns! Are you still here?" snapped McKay. "I told you--"    "In! Talk later. Come!"    The three gun fighters swiftly obeyed. With a powerful heave Lourenço  sent the canoe after the others. Americans, Brazilians, and the Raposa  hunched up among the packs, all went sliding down a jungle Styx.    A moment later the Red Bone warriors, taking heart from the cessation of  firing, poured an avalanche of arrows into the spot where they had been.  And as the canoe, last in the escaping line, was swallowed up in the  impenetrable blackness of the forest a hair-raising screech of  diabolical fury blended with a swift succession of splashes back where  the cannibals were plunging headlong into the stream to reach the dead  or wounded men whom they vainly hoped to find on the farther shore.    "I told you to take this man and go!" McKay fumed. "By disobeying orders  you risked losing him."    "Oh, pipe down, Rod!" remonstrated Knowlton. "If they had, where'd we be 
 ye was wiped out sure! We was all set to start in the mornin' and pull  them Red Bones to pieces. Mebbe we'll do it yet, too. How'd ye break  through? Did ye kill Sworn-off and his gang?"    "Schwandorf? Gang? Haven't seen anybody but Red Bones--though we sure  saw plenty of them," replied Knowlton. "What are you talking about?"    "Then ye missed him by about one point windage. When'd ye leave? Last  night? I bet he's there by now. Gee! Where'd ye git them girls? And  who's this guy? Great gosh! Is he the Raposy? Wal, for the love o'  Mike--"    "Tim!" broke in McKay. "What's all this about? Now wait. This is the  Raposa. These girls are Mayoruna women held prisoners by the Red Bones.  We got them last night and lit out in the middle of a general  engagement. Now open up with your news."    "Right, Cap. We got a visitor to-day--old friend of ourn--li'l' old  Hozy, the only white guy in that Peruvian crew we had. He's all dolled  up like an Injun--shaved face, tribe paint, and so on. He come through  the Injun country that way--I dunno yet how he done it, him bein' a  Peruvian and all, but he got through, and he says Sworn-off and a whole  gang of bad eggs is back here to git this Raposy guy and all the girls  they can lay hands on. He says Sworn-off's got them Red Bones workin'  for him, and you fellers must be massacreed sure by now.    "Good thing I was here when he come, or he'd be cut up and in the  stewpot. Monitaya's a good skate, but he sure is poison to anything  Peruvian, and soon as Hozy begun to try to talk he got wise and dang  near bumped him off. I got him to cool down some, and he believes Hozy's  tellin' the truth, but even at that they got Hozy tied up like a dog.  Come look at him."    But it was necessary to wait awhile for Tucu and Lourenço to tell  Monitaya the tale of what had taken place; for the chief demanded  immediate and full details, and not until he had them would he return to 
the houses to the creek. Meanwhile the women and the older children were  weaving flimsy covers from withes and vines. As soon as a tunnel was  completed it was masked outside the walls by one of these covers, on  which a thin layer of earth and grass was laid. The two trenches were  likewise concealed, and the loose earth was carried inside the house and  packed solidly against the walls flanking the doors.    At sundown of the fourth day the work was ended. And so well was it done  that when the great chief, his subchiefs, and his foreign allies went on  a final tour of inspection they could find no sign that the houses were  honeycombed with exits or that the ground in front of the little  entrances was not solid at all points.    "Rod and I took the idea from those pit traps out on the trails,"  Knowlton explained for the dozenth time. "Holes are covered to look  exactly like the rest of the ground. Every man of us has to be inside  when the enemy arrives, but we have to get out quick when the right time  comes, so we go under the walls. And can't you see those brave women  stealers go kerplunk down into the trenches? Oh boy!"    Whereat Lourenço and José smiled as if enjoying a secret joke. They  were. For they knew something of which the Americans were not  aware--that Monitaya had improved on the trench-trap idea of the whites  by studding the bottom of those trenches with barbed araya bones smeared  with wurali.    "Yeah, and I figger them guys 'll git some jolt when these houses, which  'ain't got nobody in 'em but women and kids, begin to spit lead out o'  loopholes and spew screechin' cannibals up out o' the ground. Gosh! I  wouldn't miss seein' Sworn-off's face for a keg o' beer--and that's  sayin' somethin'."    Wherein Tim expressed the general sentiment.    So ended the fourth day. When the fifth broke no man showed himself  outside the walls. Except the few outposts, every male of the Monitaya  _malocas_ bided within, awaiting with growing tension the arrival of the  
 of his own, as I was saying, there is no doubt that _el Aleman_ now is  with the devil. So, since we can do nothing for him, let us look after  the two North American señores."    Pedro, with a grim smile, turned with him toward the tribal houses.  There was nothing else for them to do, for the Mayorunas now were  dispatching the last survivors of the attacking force. Before the pair  entered the low doorway a long, triumphant yell burst from the hoarse  throats of the men of Monitaya. Of all the Red Bones who had swept in  such ghoulish glee into that clearing not one now remained alive.    At that shout of victory and the entrance of the men to whose  precautions and prowess they owed so much, the women flocked again into  the center of the _maloca_ and the children dived out through the  tunnels to behold the battlefield. Though bullets and arrows had come  through the doorway, those inside had escaped all injury by hugging the  protective earth embankment or taking refuge in the vacant shafts under  the walls. Now the older women, experienced in treatment of wounds,  busied themselves with the white warriors, while the younger ones  fetched water and pieces of isca--a natural styptic made by ants--or  made up pads of poultices of healing herbs.    Tim, who had expected to play surgeon with his crude knowledge of first  aid, found himself not only relieved of his job, but being bathed and  plastered with the others. He, José, Pedro, Lourenço, and even Rand were  gashed by thrusts from broken spear hafts, bleeding from open bites,  ripped by glancing sweeps of tooth-set clubs, bruised by fierce  blows--minor injuries all, but such as might easily have resulted in  blood poisoning unless given prompt attention. Later on they were to be  thankful for those ministrations, but now they tolerated them only  because they could do nothing for the captain and the lieutenant.    McKay and Knowlton were under the direct and capable treatment of the  wives of the great chief. Of the two McKay looked by far the worse, but  actually was in much better condition. From the waist up he was clawed, 
