   XVIII  WAR! RED WAR!

   XIX    A STRANGE WEDDING

   XX     THE BATTLE OF THE PASS

   XXI    AWAY! AWAY!

   XXII   HOW UMSLOPOGAAS HELD THE STAIR

   XXIII  I HAVE SPOKEN









INTRODUCTION







December 23



‘I have just buried my boy, my poor handsome boy of whom I was so proud,

and my heart is broken. It is very hard having only one son to lose him

thus, but God’s will be done. Who am I that I should complain? The great

wheel of Fate rolls on like a Juggernaut, and crushes us all in turn,

some soon, some late--it does not matter when, in the end, it crushes us

all. We do not prostrate ourselves before it like the poor Indians; we

fly hither and thither--we cry for mercy; but it is of no use, the black

Fate thunders on and in its season reduces us to powder.



‘Poor Harry to go so soon! just when his life was opening to him. He was

doing so well at the hospital, he had passed his last examination with

honours, and I was proud of them, much prouder than he was, I think. And

then he must needs go to that smallpox hospital. He wrote to me that he

was not afraid of smallpox and wanted to gain the experience; and now

the disease has killed him, and I, old and grey and withered, am left

to mourn over him, without a chick or child to comfort me. I might have

saved him, too--I have money enough for both of us, and much more than

enough--King Solomon’s Mines provided me with that; but I said, “No, let

the boy earn his living, let him labour that he may enjoy rest.” But the

rest has come to him before the labour. Oh, my boy, my boy!



‘I am like the man in the Bible who laid up much goods and builded

barns--goods for my boy and barns for him to store them in; and now his

and hire these men, and accordingly on the following morning we started

to interview the party, accompanied by an interpreter.



In due course we found them in a mud hut on the outskirts of the town.

Three of the men were sitting outside the hut, and fine frank-looking

fellows they were, having a more or less civilized appearance. To them

we cautiously opened the object of our visit, at first with very scant

success. They declared that they could not entertain any such idea, that

they were worn and weary with long travelling, and that their hearts

were sore at the loss of their master. They meant to go back to their

homes and rest awhile. This did not sound very promising, so by way of

effecting a diversion I asked where the remainder of them were. I was

told there were six, and I saw but three. One of the men said they slept

in the hut, and were yet resting after their labours--‘sleep weighed

down their eyelids, and sorrow made their hearts as lead: it was best

to sleep, for with sleep came forgetfulness. But the men should be

awakened.’



Presently they came out of the hut, yawning--the first two men being

evidently of the same race and style as those already before us; but the

appearance of the third and last nearly made me jump out of my skin.

He was a very tall, broad man, quite six foot three, I should say, but

gaunt, with lean, wiry-looking limbs. My first glance at him told me

that he was no Wakwafi: he was a pure bred Zulu. He came out with his

thin aristocratic-looking hand placed before his face to hide a yawn, so

I could only see that he was a ‘Keshla’ or ringed man {Endnote 1}, and

that he had a great three-cornered hole in his forehead. In another

second he removed his hand, revealing a powerful-looking Zulu face, with

a humorous mouth, a short woolly beard, tinged with grey, and a pair of

brown eyes keen as a hawk’s. I knew my man at once, although I had not

seen him for twelve years. ‘How do you do, Umslopogaas?’ I said quietly





We made the remains of our rope fast to the other canoe, and sat waiting

for the dawn and congratulating ourselves upon our merciful escape,

which really seemed to result more from the special favour of Providence

than from our own care or prowess. At last it came, and I have not

often been more grateful to see the light, though so far as my canoe was

concerned it revealed a ghastly sight. There in the bottom of the little

boat lay the unfortunate Askari, the sime, or sword, in his bosom, and

the severed hand gripping the handle. I could not bear the sight, so

hauling up the stone which had served as an anchor to the other canoe,

we made it fast to the murdered man and dropped him overboard, and down

he went to the bottom, leaving nothing but a train of bubbles behind

him. Alas! when our time comes, most of us like him leave nothing but

bubbles behind, to show that we have been, and the bubbles soon burst.

The hand of his murderer we threw into the stream, where it slowly sank.

The sword, of which the handle was ivory, inlaid with gold (evidently

Arab work), I kept and used as a hunting-knife, and very useful it

proved.



Then, a man having been transferred to my canoe, we once more started on

in very low spirits and not feeling at all comfortable as to the future,

but fondly hoping to arrive at the ‘Highlands’ station by night. To make

matters worse, within an hour of sunrise it came on to rain in torrents,

wetting us to the skin, and even necessitating the occasional baling

of the canoes, and as the rain beat down the wind we could not use the

sails, and had to get along as best as we could with our paddles.



At eleven o’clock we halted on an open piece of ground on the left bank

of the river, and, the rain abating a little, managed to make a fire and

catch and broil some fish. We did not dare to wander about to search for

game. At two o’clock we got off again, taking a supply of broiled fish

and I have its skin upon my bed. Look there!’ she went on in an altered

voice, touching me on the arm and pointing to some far-away object, ‘I

said just now that I had companions; there is one of them.’



I looked, and for the first time there burst upon my sight the glory of

Mount Kenia. Hitherto the mountain had always been hidden in mist, but

now its radiant beauty was unveiled for many thousand feet, although

the base was still wrapped in vapour so that the lofty peak or pillar,

towering nearly twenty thousand feet into the sky, appeared to be a

fairy vision, hanging between earth and heaven, and based upon the

clouds. The solemn majesty and beauty of this white peak are together

beyond the power of my poor pen to describe. There it rose straight and

sheer--a glittering white glory, its crest piercing the very blue of

heaven. As I gazed at it with that little girl I felt my whole heart

lifted up with an indescribable emotion, and for a moment great and

wonderful thoughts seemed to break upon my mind, even as the arrows of

the setting sun were breaking upon Kenia’s snows. Mr Mackenzie’s natives

call the mountain the ‘Finger of God’, and to me it did seem eloquent

of immortal peace and of the pure high calm that surely lies above this

fevered world. Somewhere I had heard a line of poetry,



     A thing of beauty is a joy for ever,



and now it came into my mind, and for the first time I thoroughly

understood what it meant. Base, indeed, would be the man who could look

upon that mighty snow-wreathed pile--that white old tombstone of the

years--and not feel his own utter insignificance, and, by whatever name

he calls Him, worship God in his heart. Such sights are like visions of

the spirit; they throw wide the windows of the chamber of our small

selfishness and let in a breath of that air that rushes round the

rolling spheres, and for a while illumine our darkness with a far-off

gleam of the white light which beats upon the Throne.

but for one, not for the three; we must take another opportunity to kill

the other two. I do not even pick my man, though I should prefer the

big one,’ pointing to Sir Henry; ‘he looks strong, and would die more

slowly.’



‘And if I say I will not yield the man?’ said Mr Mackenzie.



‘Nay, say not so, white man,’ answered the Masai, ‘for then thy daughter

dies at dawn, and the woman with her says thou hast no other child. Were

she older I would take her for a servant; but as she is so young I will

slay her with my own hand--ay, with this very spear. Thou canst come and

see, an’ thou wilt. I give thee a safe conduct;’ and the fiend laughed

aloud as his brutal jest.



Meanwhile I had been thinking rapidly, as one does in emergencies, and

had come to the conclusion that I would exchange myself against

Flossie. I scarcely like to mention the matter for fear it should be

misunderstood. Pray do not let any one be misled into thinking that

there was anything heroic about this, or any such nonsense. It was

merely a matter of common sense and common justice. My life was an old

and worthless one, hers was young and valuable. Her death would pretty

well kill her father and mother also, whilst nobody would be much the

worse for mine; indeed, several charitable institutions would have cause

to rejoice thereat. It was indirectly through me that the dear little

girl was in her present position. Lastly, a man was better fitted to

meet death in such a peculiarly awful form than a sweet young girl. Not,

however, that I meant to let these gentry torture me to death--I am far

too much of a coward to allow that, being naturally a timid man; my plan

was to see the girl safely exchanged and then to shoot myself, trusting

that the Almighty would take the peculiar circumstances of the case into

consideration and pardon the act. All this and more went through my mind

in very few seconds.



‘All right, Mackenzie,’ I said, ‘you can tell the man that I will

but were good spearsmen, we took away their rifles, supplied them with

shields and long spears of the Masai pattern, and took them off to join

Curtis, Umslopogaas, and the Askari in holding the wide opening; it

having become clear to us that three men, however brave and strong, were

too few for the work.









CHAPTER VII A SLAUGHTER GRIM AND GREAT







Then there was a pause, and we stood there in the chilly silent darkness

waiting till the moment came to start. It was, perhaps, the most trying

time of all--that slow, slow quarter of an hour. The minutes seemed

to drag along with leaden feet, and the quiet, the solemn hush,

that brooded over all--big, as it were, with a coming fate, was most

oppressive to the spirits. I once remember having to get up before

dawn to see a man hanged, and I then went through a very similar set of

sensations, only in the present instance my feelings were animated by

that more vivid and personal element which naturally appertains rather

to the person to be operated on than to the most sympathetic spectator.

The solemn faces of the men, well aware that the short passage of

an hour would mean for some, and perhaps all of them, the last great

passage to the unknown or oblivion; the bated whispers in which they

spoke; even Sir Henry’s continuous and thoughtful examination of his

woodcutter’s axe and the fidgety way in which Good kept polishing his

eyeglass, all told the same tale of nerves stretched pretty nigh to

breaking-point. Only Umslopogaas, leaning as usual upon Inkosi-kaas and

taking an occasional pinch of snuff, was to all appearance perfectly and

completely unmoved. Nothing could touch his iron nerves.



The moon went down. For a long while she had been getting nearer and

nearer to the horizon. Now she finally sank and left the world in

darkness save for a faint grey tinge in the eastern sky that palely

heralded the dawn.



Mr Mackenzie stood, watch in hand, his wife clinging to his arm and

striving to stifle her sobs.


the people on the grass in one of the London parks on a particularly hot

Sunday in August. In front of this entrance, on a space which had been

cleared of dead and of the shields and spears which were scattered in

all directions as they had fallen or been thrown from the hands of their

owners, stood and lay the survivors of the awful struggle, and at their

feet were four wounded men. We had gone into the fight thirty strong,

and of the thirty but fifteen remained alive, and five of them

(including Mr Mackenzie) were wounded, two mortally. Of those who held

the entrance, Curtis and the Zulu alone remained. Good had lost five men

killed, I had lost two killed, and Mackenzie no less than five out of

the six with him. As for the survivors they were, with the exception of

myself who had never come to close quarters, red from head to foot--Sir

Henry’s armour might have been painted that colour--and utterly

exhausted, except Umslopogaas, who, as he grimly stood on a little

mound above a heap of dead, leaning as usual upon his axe, did not seem

particularly distressed, although the skin over the hole in his head

palpitated violently.



‘Ah, Macumazahn!’ he said to me as I limped up, feeling very sick, ‘I

told thee that it would be a good fight, and it has. Never have I seen a

better, or one more bravely fought. As for this iron shirt, surely it is

“tagati” [bewitched]; nothing could pierce it. Had it not been for the

garment I should have been _there_,’ and he nodded towards the great

pile of dead men beneath him.



‘I give it thee; thou art a brave man,’ said Sir Henry, briefly.



‘Koos!’ answered the Zulu, deeply pleased both at the gift and the

compliment. ‘Thou, too, Incubu, didst bear thyself as a man, but I must

give thee some lessons with the axe; thou dost waste thy strength.’



Just then Mackenzie asked about Flossie, and we were all greatly

relieved when one of the men said he had seen her flying towards the

house with the nurse. Then bearing such of the wounded as could be moved

Accordingly, having purchased a capital log canoe, large enough to hold

us all and our baggage, from the headman of the village we were staying

in, presenting him with three empty cold-drawn brass cartridges by way

of payment, with which he was perfectly delighted, we set out to make

a tour of the lake in order to find the most favourable place to make a

camp. As we did not know if we should return to this village, we put all

our gear into the canoe, and also a quarter of cooked water-buck, which

when young is delicious eating, and off we set, natives having already

gone before us in light canoes to warn the inhabitants of the other

villages of our approach.



As we were puddling leisurely along Good remarked upon the extraordinary

deep blue colour of the water, and said that he understood from the

natives, who were great fishermen--fish, indeed, being their principal

food--that the lake was supposed to be wonderfully deep, and to have

a hole at the bottom through which the water escaped and put out some

great fire that was raging below.



I pointed out to him that what he had heard was probably a legend

arising from a tradition among the people which dated back to the time

when one of the extinct parasitic volcanic cones was in activity. We saw

several round the borders of the lake which had no doubt been working

at a period long subsequent to the volcanic death of the central crater

which now formed the bed of the lake itself. When it finally became

extinct the people would imagine that the water from the lake had run

down and put out the big fire below, more especially as, though it was

constantly fed by streams running from the snow-tipped peaks about,

there was no visible exit to it.



The farther shore of the lake we found, on approaching it, to consist

of a vast perpendicular wall of rock, which held the water without any

intermediate sloping bank, as elsewhere. Accordingly we paddled parallel

with this precipice, at a distance of about a hundred paces from it,

shaping our course for the end of the lake, where we knew that there was

increasing by leaps and bounds, and whose stench was overpowering.

So fast as we cracked their armour others seized the injured ones and

devoured them, foaming at the mouth, and screaming as they did so. Nor

did the brutes stop at that. When they could they nipped hold of us--and

awful nips they were--or tried to steal the meat. One enormous fellow

got hold of the swan we had skinned and began to drag it off. Instantly

a score of others flung themselves upon the prey, and then began a

ghastly and disgusting scene. How the monsters foamed and screamed, and

rent the flesh, and each other! It was a sickening and unnatural sight,

and one that will haunt all who saw it till their dying day--enacted as

it was in the deep, oppressive gloom, and set to the unceasing music of

the many-toned nerve-shaking echoes. Strange as it may seem to say

so, there was something so shockingly human about these fiendish

creatures--it was as though all the most evil passions and desires of

man had got into the shell of a magnified crab and gone mad. They were

so dreadfully courageous and intelligent, and they looked as if they

_understood_. The whole scene might have furnished material for another

canto of Dante’s ‘Inferno’, as Curtis said.





‘I say, you fellows, let’s get out of this or we shall all go off our

heads,’ sung out Good; and we were not slow to take the hint. Pushing

the canoe, around which the animals were now crawling by hundreds and

making vain attempts to climb, off the rocks, we bundled into it and got

out into mid-stream, leaving behind us the fragments of our meal and the

screaming, foaming, stinking mass of monsters in full possession of the

ground.



‘Those are the devils of the place,’ said Umslopogaas with the air of

one who has solved a problem, and upon my word I felt almost inclined to

agree with him.



Umslopogaas’ remarks were like his axe--very much to the point.



‘What’s to be done next?’ said Sir Henry blankly.



‘Drift, I suppose,’ I answered, and we drifted accordingly. All the

man might have been proud, both on account of its magnitude and its

surpassing beauty. Four times, as we afterwards learnt, did the work,

which was commenced in remote antiquity, fail, and was then abandoned

for three centuries when half-finished, till at last there rose a

youthful engineer named Rademas, who said that he would complete it

successfully, and staked his life upon it. If he failed he was to be

hurled from the precipice he had undertaken to scale; if he succeeded,

he was to be rewarded by the hand of the king’s daughter. Five years was

given to him to complete the work, and an unlimited supply of labour and

material. Three times did his arch fall, till at last, seeing failure

to be inevitable, he determined to commit suicide on the morrow of the

third collapse. That night, however, a beautiful woman came to him in a

dream and touched his forehead, and of a sudden he saw a vision of the

completed work, and saw too through the masonry and how the difficulties

connected with the flying arch that had hitherto baffled his genius were

to be overcome. Then he awoke and once more commenced the work, but on

a different plan, and behold! he achieved it, and on the last day of

the five years he led the princess his bride up the stair and into

the palace. And in due course he became king by right of his wife, and

founded the present Zu-Vendi dynasty, which is to this day called the

‘House of the Stairway’, thus proving once more how energy and talent

are the natural stepping-stones to grandeur. And to commemorate his

triumph he fashioned a statue of himself dreaming, and of the fair woman

who touched him on the forehead, and placed it in the great hall of the

palace, and there it stands to this day.



Such was the great stair of Milosis, and such the city beyond. No wonder

they named it the ‘Frowning City’, for certainly those mighty works in

solid granite did seem to frown down upon our littleness in their sombre

splendour. This was so even in the sunshine, but when the storm-clouds

gathered on her imperial brow Milosis looked more like a supernatural



‘I say, Quatermain,’ said the voice.



‘Well,’ I answered testily, ‘what is it now?’



‘Did you notice her ankle? The shape--’



This was more than I could stand. By my bed stood the veldtschoons I had

been wearing. Moved quite beyond myself, I took them up and threw them

straight at Good’s head--and hit it.



Afterwards I slept the sleep of the just, and a very heavy sleep it must

be. As for Good, I don’t know if he went to sleep or if he continued to

pass Sorais’ beauties in mental review, and, what is more, I don’t care.









CHAPTER XIII ABOUT THE ZU-VENDI PEOPLE







And now the curtain is down for a few hours, and the actors in this

novel drama are plunged in dewy sleep. Perhaps we should except

Nyleptha, whom the reader may, if poetically inclined, imagine lying in

her bed of state encompassed by her maidens, tiring women, guards, and

all the other people and appurtenances that surround a throne, and yet

not able to slumber for thinking of the strangers who had visited a

country where no such strangers had ever come before, and wondering, as

she lay awake, who they were and what their past has been, and if she

was ugly compared to the women of their native place. I, however, not

being poetically inclined, will take advantage of the lull to give some

account of the people among whom we found ourselves, compiled, needless

to state, from information which we subsequently collected.



The name of this country, to begin at the beginning, is Zu-Vendis,

from Zu, ‘yellow’, and Vendis, ‘place or country’. Why it is called the

Yellow Country I have never been able to ascertain accurately, nor do

the inhabitants themselves know. Three reasons are, however, given, each

of which would suffice to account for it. The first is that the name

owes its origin to the great quantity of gold that is found in the land.

Indeed, in this respect Zu-Vendis is a veritable Eldorado, the precious

metal being extraordinarily plentiful. At present it is collected from

(the width of the circle itself), or a total of six hundred feet from

the rounded extremity of one ray or petal to the extremity of the

opposite one. {Endnote 14}



The building itself is of pure and polished white marble, which shows

out in marvellous contrast to the red granite of the frowning city, on

whose brow it glistens indeed like an imperial diadem upon the forehead

of a dusky queen. The outer surface of the dome and of the twelve petal

courts is covered entirely with thin sheets of beaten gold; and from the

extreme point of the roof of each of these petals a glorious golden form

with a trumpet in its hand and widespread wings is figured in the very

act of soaring into space. I really must leave whoever reads this to

imagine the surpassing beauty of these golden roofs flashing when the

sun strikes--flashing like a thousand fires aflame on a mountain of

polished marble--so fiercely that the reflection can be clearly seen

from the great peaks of the range a hundred miles away.



It is a marvellous sight--this golden flower upborne upon the cool white

marble walls, and I doubt if the world can show such another. What makes

the whole effect even more gorgeous is that a belt of a hundred and

fifty feet around the marble wall of the temple is planted with an

indigenous species of sunflower, which were at the time when we first

saw them a sheet of golden bloom.



The main entrance to this wonderful place is between the two

northernmost of the rays or petal courts, and is protected first by the

usual bronze gates, and then by doors made of solid marble, beautifully

carved with allegorical subjects and overlaid with gold. When these

are passed there is only the thickness of the wall, which is, however,

twenty-five feet (for the Zu-Vendi build for all time), and another

slight wall also of white marble, introduced in order to avoid causing a

visible gap in the inner skin of the wall, and you stand in the circular

hall under the great dome. Advancing to the central altar you look upon

as beautiful a sight as the imagination of man can conceive. You are in

the affairs of state would allow of it. And I am bound to say that those

little suppers were quite the most charming things of their sort that

I ever had to do with. How true is the saying that the very highest

in rank are always the most simple and kindly. It is from your

half-and-half sort of people that you get pomposity and vulgarity, the

difference between the two being very much what one sees every day in

England between the old, out-at-elbows, broken-down county family, and

the overbearing, purse-proud people who come and ‘take the place’. I

really think that Nyleptha’s greatest charm is her sweet simplicity, and

her kindly genuine interest even in little things. She is the simplest

woman I ever knew, and where her passions are not involved, one of the

sweetest; but she can look queenly enough when she likes, and be as

fierce as any savage too.



For instance, never shall I forget that scene when I for the first time

was sure that she was really in love with Curtis. It came about in this

way--all through Good’s weakness for ladies’ society. When we had been

employed for some three months in learning Zu-Vendi, it struck Master

Good that he was getting rather tired of the old gentlemen who did us

the honour to lead us in the way that we should go, so he proceeded,

without saying a word to anybody else, to inform them that it was a

peculiar fact, but that we could not make any real progress in the

deeper intricacies of a foreign language unless we were taught by

ladies--young ladies, he was careful to explain. In his own country, he

pointed out, it was habitual to choose the very best-looking and most

charming girls who could be found to instruct any strangers who happened

to come that way, etc.



All of this the old gentlemen swallowed open-mouthed. There was,

they admitted, reason in what he said, since the contemplation of the

beautiful, as their philosophy taught, induced a certain porosity of

mind similar to that produced upon the physical body by the healthful

influences of sun and air. Consequently it was probable that we might

looking very pale, and his eyes shining, but proud and handsome as a

god.



Slowly, slowly she raised her head, and fixed her wonderful eyes, all

alight with the greatness of her passion, full upon his face, as though

to read his very soul. Then at last she spoke, low indeed, but clearly

as a silver bell.



‘Of a truth, weak woman that I am, I do believe thee. Ill will be the

day for thee and for me also if it be my fate to learn that I have

believed a lie. And now hearken to me, oh man, who hath wandered here

from far to steal my heart and make me all thine own. I put my hand upon

thy hand thus, and thus I, whose lips have never kissed before, do kiss

thee on the brow; and now by my hand and by that first and holy kiss,

ay, by my people’s weal and by my throne that like enough I shall lose

for thee--by the name of my high House, by the sacred Stone and by the

eternal majesty of the Sun, I swear that for thee will I live and die.

And I swear that I will love thee and thee only till death, ay, and

beyond, if as thou sayest there be a beyond, and that thy will shall be

my will, and thy ways my ways.



‘Oh see, see, my lord! thou knowest not how humble is she who loves; I,

who am a Queen, I kneel before thee, even at thy feet I do my homage;’

and the lovely impassioned creature flung herself down on her knees on

the cold marble before him. And after that I really do not know, for

I could stand it no longer, and cleared off to refresh myself with a

little of old Umslopogaas’ society, leaving them to settle it their own

way, and a very long time they were about it.



I found the old warrior leaning on Inkosi-kaas as usual, and surveying

the scene in the patch of moonlight with a grim smile of amusement.



‘Ah, Macumazahn,’ he said, ‘I suppose it is because I am getting old,

and departed. Then Nyleptha sent a messenger to Sir Henry, and presently

he arrived looking uncommonly uncomfortable. I thought that another

outburst was about to follow, but wonderful are the ways of woman; she

said not a word about Sorais and his supposed inconstancy, greeting him

with a friendly nod, and stating simply that she required his advice

upon high matters. All the same there was a look in her eye, and a sort

of suppressed energy in her manner towards him, that makes me think

that she had not forgotten the affair, but was keeping it for a private

occasion.



Just after Curtis arrived the officer returned, and reported that Sorais

was _gone_. The bird had flown to the Temple, stating that she was

going, as was sometimes the custom among Zu-Vendi ladies of rank, to

spend the night in meditation before the altar. We looked at each other

significantly. The blow had fallen very soon.



Then we set to work.



Generals who could be trusted were summoned from their quarters, and

as much of the State affairs as was thought desirable was told to each,

strict injunctions being given to them to get all their available force

together. The same was done with such of the more powerful lords as

Nyleptha knew she could rely on, several of whom left that very day for

distant parts of the country to gather up their tribesmen and retainers.

Sealed orders were dispatched to the rulers of far-off cities, and some

twenty messengers were sent off before nightfall with instructions to

ride early and late till they reached the distant chiefs to whom their

letters were addressed: also many spies were set to work. All the

afternoon and evening we laboured, assisted by some confidential

scribes, Nyleptha showing an energy and resource of mind that astonished

me, and it was eight o’clock before we got back to our quarters. Here we

heard from Alphonse, who was deeply aggrieved because our non-return had

spoilt his dinner (for he had turned cook again now), that Good had come

back from his hawking and gone on duty. As instructions had already been

given to the officer of the outer guard to double the sentries at the

hand in hand there at her lover’s side, so sure of him and of herself,

and so ready to risk all things and endure all things for him, that most

of those who saw the sight, which I am sure no one of them will ever

forget, caught the fire from her eyes and the happy colour from her

blushing face, and cheered her like wild things. It was a bold stroke

for her to make, and it appealed to the imagination; but human nature

in Zu-Vendis, as elsewhere, loves that which is bold and not afraid to

break a rule, and is moreover peculiarly susceptible to appeals to its

poetical side.



And so the people cheered till the roof rang; but Sorais of the Night

stood there with downcast eyes, for she could not bear to see her

sister’s triumph, which robbed her of the man whom she had hoped to win,

and in the awfulness of her jealous anger she trembled and turned white

like an aspen in the wind. I think I have said somewhere of her that she

reminded me of the sea on a calm day, having the same aspect of sleeping

power about her. Well, it was all awake now, and like the face of the

furious ocean it awed and yet fascinated me. A really handsome woman

in a royal rage is always a beautiful sight, but such beauty and such

a rage I never saw combined before, and I can only say that the effect

produced was well worthy of the two.



She lifted her white face, the teeth set, and there were purple rings

beneath her glowing eyes. Thrice she tried to speak and thrice she

failed, but at last her voice came. Raising her silver spear, she shook

it, and the light gleamed from it and from the golden scales of her

cuirass.



‘And thinkest thou, Nyleptha,’ she said in notes which pealed through

the great hall like a clarion, ‘thinkest thou that I, Sorais, a Queen

of the Zu-Vendi, will brook that this base outlander shall sit upon my

father’s throne and rear up half-breeds to fill the place of the great

House of the Stairway? Never! never! while there is life in my bosom and

And now, my lords, once more, farewell!’



Then we rode on, but when we had gone a hundred and fifty yards or so,

we turned and perceived her still sitting on her horse at the same spot,

and looking out after us beneath her hand, and that was the last we saw

of her. About a mile farther on, however, we heard galloping behind

us, and looking round, saw a mounted soldier coming towards us, leading

Nyleptha’s matchless steed--Daylight.



‘The Queen sends the white stallion as a farewell gift to her Lord

Incubu, and bids me tell my lord that he is the fleetest and most

enduring horse in all the land,’ said the soldier, bending to his

saddle-bow before us.



At first Sir Henry did not want to take the horse, saying that he was

too good for such rough work, but I persuaded him to do so, thinking

that Nyleptha would be hurt if he did not. Little did I guess at the

time what service that noble horse would render in our sorest need. It

is curious to look back and realize upon what trivial and apparently

coincidental circumstances great events frequently turn as easily and

naturally as a door on its hinges.



Well, we took the horse, and a beauty he was, it was a perfect pleasure

to see him move, and Curtis having sent back his greetings and thanks,

we proceeded on our journey.



By midday we overtook the rear-guard of the great army of which

Sir Henry then formally took over the command. It was a heavy

responsibility, and it oppressed him very much, but the Queen’s

injunctions on the point were such as did not admit of being

trifled with. He was beginning to find out that greatness has its

responsibilities as well as its glories.



Then we marched on without meeting with any opposition, almost indeed

without seeing anybody, for the populations of the towns and villages

along our route had for the most part fled, fearing lest they should

be caught between the two rival armies and ground to powder like grain

between the upper and the nether stones.

through the white patchy moonlight, that lay coldly upon the wide bosom

of the earth, as though there was no warmth in it; on, knee to knee, for

hour after hour!



We spake not, but bent us forward on the necks of those two glorious

horses, and listened to their deep, long-drawn breaths as they filled

their great lungs, and to the regular unfaltering ring of their round

hoofs. Grim and black indeed did old Umslopogaas look beside me, mounted

upon the great white horse, like Death in the Revelation of St John, as

now and again lifting his fierce set face he gazed out along the road,

and pointed with his axe towards some distant rise or house.



And so on, still on, without break or pause for hour after hour.



At last I felt that even the splendid animal that I rode was beginning

to give out. I looked at my watch; it was nearly midnight, and we were

considerably more than half way. On the top of a rise was a little

spring, which I remembered because I had slept by it a few nights

before, and here I motioned to Umslopogaas to pull up, having determined

to give the horses and ourselves ten minutes to breathe in. He did so,

and we dismounted--that is to say, Umslopogaas did, and then helped me

off, for what with fatigue, stiffness, and the pain of my wound, I could

not do so for myself; and then the gallant horses stood panting there,

resting first one leg and then another, while the sweat fell drip, drip,

from them, and the steam rose and hung in pale clouds in the still night

air.



Leaving Umslopogaas to hold the horses, I hobbled to the spring and

drank deep of its sweet waters. I had had nothing but a single mouthful

of wine since midday, when the battle began, and I was parched up,

though my fatigue was too great to allow me to feel hungry. Then, having

laved my fevered head and hands, I returned, and the Zulu went and

drank. Next we allowed the horses to take a couple of mouthfuls each--no

more; and oh, what a struggle we had to get the poor beasts away from

cheered him, as well they might, but he never stayed or heeded. With

outstretched arms and tottering gait he pursued his way, followed by us

all along the broad shell-strewn walk that ran through the courtyard,

past the spot where the blocks of marble lay, through the round arched

doorway and the thick curtains that hung within it, down the

short passage and into the great hall, which was now filling with

hastily-armed men, who poured through the side entrance. Straight up

the hall he went, leaving behind him a track of blood on the marble

pavement, till at last he reached the sacred stone, which stood in the

centre of it, and here his strength seemed to fail him, for he stopped

and leaned upon his axe. Then suddenly he lifted up his voice and cried

aloud--



‘I die, I die--but it was a kingly fray. Where are they who came up the

great stair? I see them not. Art thou there, Macumazahn, or art thou

gone before to wait for me in the dark whither I go? The blood blinds

me--the place turns round--I hear the voice of waters.’



Next, as though a new thought had struck him, he lifted the red axe and

kissed the blade.



‘Farewell, Inkosi-kaas,’ he cried. ‘Nay, nay, we will go together; we

cannot part, thou and I. We have lived too long one with another, thou

and I.



‘One more stroke, only one! A good stroke! a straight stroke! a

strong stroke!’ and, drawing himself to his full height, with a wild

heart-shaking shout, he with both hands began to whirl the axe round his

head till it looked like a circle of flaming steel. Then, suddenly, with

awful force he brought it down straight on to the crown of the mass

of sacred stone. A shower of sparks flew up, and such was the almost

superhuman strength of the blow, that the massive marble split with

a rending sound into a score of pieces, whilst of Inkosi-kaas there

remained but some fragments of steel and a fibrous rope of shattered

horn that had been the handle. Down with a crash on to the pavement fell

known the dear breath of woman’s love, and that true friendship which

can even surpass the love of woman, glad to have heard the laughter of

little children, to have seen the sun and the moon and the stars, to

have felt the kiss of the salt sea on my face, and watched the wild game

trek down to the water in the moonlight. But I should not wish to live

again!



Everything is changing to me. The darkness draws near, and the light

departs. And yet it seems to me that through that darkness I can already

see the shining welcome of many a long-lost face. Harry is there, and

others; one above all, to my mind the sweetest and most perfect woman

that ever gladdened this grey earth. But of her I have already written

elsewhere, and at length, so why speak of her now? Why speak of her

after this long silence, now that she is again so near to me, now that I

go where she has gone?



The sinking sun is turning the golden roof of the great Temple to a

fiery flame, and my fingers tire.



So to all who have known me, or known of me, to all who can think one

kindly thought of the old hunter, I stretch out my hand from the far-off

shore and bid a long farewell.



And now into the hands of Almighty God, who sent it, do I commit my

spirit.



‘_I have spoken,_’ as the Zulus say.









CHAPTER XXIV  BY ANOTHER HAND





A year has elapsed since our most dear friend Allan Quatermain wrote the

words ‘_I have spoken_’ at the end of his record of our adventures. Nor

should I have ventured to make any additions to the record had it not

happened that by a most strange accident a chance has arisen of its

being conveyed to England. The chance is but a faint one, it is true;

but, as it is not probable that another will arise in our lifetimes,

Good and myself think that we may as well avail ourselves of it, such as

