in a way cast a slur upon my memory and truthfulness. Also, as you will

read, as to this matter I made a promise and I have always tried to

keep my promises and to guard the secrets of others. For these reasons I

proposed, in case I neglected or forgot to destroy them myself, to leave

a direction that this should be done by my executors. Further, I have

been careful to make no allusion _whatever_ to them either in casual

conversation or in anything else that I may have written, my desire

being that this page of my life should be kept quite private, something

known only to myself. Therefore, too, I never so much as hinted of them

to anyone, not even to yourself to whom I have told so much.



Well, I recorded the main facts concerning this expedition and its

issues, simply and with as much exactness as I could, and laid them

aside. I do not say that I never thought of them again, since amongst

them were some which, together with the problems they suggested, proved

to be of an unforgettable nature.



Also, whenever any of Ayesha’s sayings or stories which are not

preserved in these pages came back to me, as has happened from time to

time, I jotted them down and put them away with this manuscript. Thus

among these notes you will find a history of the city of Kôr as she told

it to me, which I have omitted here. Still, many of these remarkable

events did more or less fade from my mind, as the image does from

an unfixed photograph, till only their outlines remained, faint if

distinguishable.



To tell the truth, I was rather ashamed of the whole story in which

I cut so poor a figure. On reflection it was obvious to me, although

honesty had compelled me to set out all that is essential exactly as it

occurred, adding nothing and taking nothing away, that I had been the

victim of very gross deceit. This strange woman, whom I had met in the

ruins of a place called Kôr, without any doubt had thrown a glamour over

my senses and at the moment almost caused me to believe much that is

I did try, but something seemed to prevent me from accomplishing my

purpose of giving the carving back to Zikali as I wished to do. First

my pipe got in the way of my hand, then the elephant hairs caught in the

collar of my coat; then a pang of rheumatism to which I was accustomed

from an old lion-bite, developed of a sudden in my arm, and lastly I

grew tired of bothering about the thing.



Zikali, who had been watching my movements, burst out into one of his

terrible laughs that seemed to fill the whole kloof and to re-echo from

its rocky walls. It died away and he went on, without further reference

to the talisman or image.



“You asked whom you were to take with you, Macumazahn. Well, as to this

I must make inquiry of those who know. Man, my medicines!”



From the shadows in the hut behind darted out a tall figure carrying

a great spear in one hand and in the other a catskin bag which with a

salute he laid down at the feet of his master. This salute, by the way,

was that of a Zulu word which means “Lord” or “Home” of Ghosts.



Zikali groped in the bag and produced from it certain knuckle-bones.



“A common method,” he muttered, “such as every vulgar wizard uses, but

one that is quick and, as the matter concerned is small, will serve my

turn. Let us see now, whom you shall take with you, Macumazahn.”



Then he breathed upon the bones, shook them up in his thin hands and

with a quick turn of the wrist, threw them into the air. After this

he studied them carefully, where they lay among the ashes which he had

raked out of the fire, those that he had used for the making of his map.



“Do you know a man named Umslopogaas, Macumazahn, the chief of a tribe

that is called The People of the Axe, whose titles of praise are Bulalio

or the Slaughterer, and Woodpecker, the latter from the way he handles

his ancient axe? He is a savage fellow, but one of high blood and

fortified with fences and in every other way known to the native mind.



With the help of the spare oxen we crossed the river safely at the ford,

although it was very full, and on the further side were received by a

guard of men, tall, soldierlike fellows, all of them armed with axes as

the messengers had been. They led us up to the cattle enclosure in the

centre of the town, which although it could be used to protect beasts in

case of emergency, also served the practical purpose of a public square.



Here some ceremony was in progress, for soldiers stood round the kraal

while heralds pranced and shouted. At the head of the place in front

of the chief’s big hut was a little group of people, among whom a big,

gaunt man sat upon a stool clad in a warrior’s dress with a great and

very long axe hafted with wire-lashed rhinoceros horn, laid across his

knees.



Our guides led me, with Hans sneaking after me like a dejected and

low-bred dog (for the waggon had stopped outside the gate), across the

kraal to where the heralds shouted and the big man sat yawning. At once

I noted that he was a very remarkable person, broad and tall and spare

of frame, with long, tough-looking arms and a fierce face which reminded

me of that of the late King Dingaan. Also he had a great hole in his

head above the temple where the skull had been driven in by some blow,

and keen, royal-looking eyes.



He looked up and seeing me, cried out,



“What! Has a white man come to fight me for the chieftainship of the

People of the Axe? Well, he is a small one.”



“No,” I answered quietly, “but Macumazahn, Watcher-by-Night, has come

to visit you in answer to your request, O Umslopogaas; Macumazahn whose

name was known in this land before yours was told of, O Umslopogaas.”



The Chief heard and rising from his seat, lifted the big axe in salute.



“I greet you, O Macumazahn,” he said, “who although you are small

in stature, are very great indeed in fame. Have I not heard how you



In due course and without accident, for the weather, which had been

so wet, had now turned beautifully fine and dry, we came to the great,

flat-topped hill that I have mentioned, trekking thither over high,

sparsely-timbered veld that offered few difficulties to the waggon. This

peculiar hill, known to such natives as lived in those parts by a long

word that means “Hut-with-a-flat-roof,” is surrounded by forest, for

here trees grow wonderfully well, perhaps because of the water that

flows from its slopes. Forcing our way through this forest, which was

full of game, I reached its eastern foot and there camped, five

days before that night of full moon on which I had arranged to meet

Umslopogaas.



That I should meet him I did not in the least believe, firstly because

I thought it very probable that he would have changed his mind about

coming, and secondly for the excellent reason that I expected he had

gone to call upon the King against his will, as I had been asked to do.

It was evident to me that he was up to his eyes in some serious plot

against Cetywayo, in which he was the old dwarf Zikali’s partner, or

rather, tool; also that his plot had been betrayed, with the result that

he was “wanted” and would have little chance of passing safely through

Zululand. So taking one thing with another I imagined that I had seen

his grim face and his peculiar, ancient-looking axe for the last time.



To tell the truth I was glad. Although at first the idea had appealed to

me a little, I did not want to make this wild-goose, or wild-witch chase

through unknown lands to seek for a totally fabulous person who dwelt

far across the Zambesi. I had, as it were, been forced into the thing,

but if Umslopogaas did not appear, my obligations would be at an end

and I should return to Natal at my leisure. First, however, I would do

a little shooting since I found that a large herd of elephants haunted

this forest. Indeed I was tempted to attack them at once, but did not

do so since, as Hans pointed out, if we were going north it would be

some lives lost and, rightly or wrongly, I got the sack. Then I started

as a trader in a God-forsaken hole named Chinde, one of the Zambesi

mouths, you know, and did very well, as we Scotchmen have a way of

doing.



“There I married a Portuguese lady, a real lady of high blood, one of

the old sort. When my girl, Inez, was about twelve years old I got into

more trouble, for my wife died and it pleased a certain relative of hers

to say that it was because I had neglected her. This ended in a row and

the truth is that I killed him--in fair fight, mind you. Still, kill him

I did though I scarcely knew that I had done it at the time, after which

the place grew too hot to hold me. So I sold up and swore that I would

have no more to do with what they are pleased to call civilisation on

the East Coast.



“During my trading I had heard that there was fine country up this way,

and here I came and settled years ago, bringing my girl and Thomaso, who

was one of my managers, also a few other people with me. And here I have

been ever since, doing very well as before, for I trade a lot of ivory

and other things and grow stuff and cattle, which I sell to the River

natives. Yes, I am a rich man now and could go to live on my means in

Scotland, or anywhere.”



“Why don’t you?” I asked.



“Oh! for many reasons. I have lost touch with all that and become half

wild and I like this life and the sunshine and being my own master.

Also, if I did, things might be raked up against me, about that man’s

death. Also, though I daresay it will make you think badly of me for it,

Mr. Quatermain, I have ties down there,” and he waved is hand towards

the village, if so it could be called, “which it wouldn’t be easy for

me to break. A man may be fond of his children, Mr. Quatermain, even

if their skins ain’t so white as they ought to be. Lastly I have

matters of which he knows nothing,” said Umslopogaas sententiously to

me afterwards. But all the same he could never bear any allusion to this

tree-climbing episode in his martial career, which, as it happened, had

taken place in full view of his retainers, among whom it remained the

greatest of jokes. Indeed, he wanted to kill a man, the wag of the

party, who gave him a slang name which, being translated, means

“_He-who-is-so-brave-that-he-dares-to-ride-a-water-horse-up-a-tree._”



It was all over at last, for which I thanked Providence devoutly. A good

many of the sea-cows were dead, I think twenty-one was out exact bag,

but the majority of them had escaped in one way or another, many as I

fear, wounded. I imagine that at the last the bulk of the herd overcame

its fears and swimming through our screen, passed away down the channel.

At any rate they were gone, and having ascertained that there was

nothing to be done for the man who had been trampled on my side of the

channel, I crossed it in the canoe with the object of returning quietly

to our camp to rest.



But as yet there was to be no quiet for me, for there I found Captain

Robertson, who I think had been refreshing himself out of a bottle and

was in a great state of excitement about a native who had been killed

near him who was a favourite of his, and another whose leg was broken.

He declared vehemently that the hippopotamus which had done this had

been wounded and rushed into some bushes a few hundred yards away, and

that he meant to take vengeance upon it. Indeed, he was just setting off

to do so.



Seeing his agitated state I thought it wisest to follow him. What

happened need not be set out in detail. It is sufficient to say that

he found that hippopotamus and blazed both barrels at it in the bushes,

hitting it, but not seriously. Out lumbered the creature with its mouth

open, wishing to escape. Robertson turned to fly as he was in its path,

but from one cause or another, tripped and fell down. Certainly he would


leadership. So they made the best of a bad business and got themselves

ready.



Then arrangements must be made about the carrying on of the farm and

store during our absence. These, together with my waggon and oxen, were

put in the charge of Thomaso, since there was no one else who could be

trusted at all--a very battered and crestfallen Thomaso, by the way.

When he heard of it he was much relieved, since I think he feared lest

he also should be expected to take part in the hunt of the Amahagger

man-eaters. Also it may have occurred to him that in all probability

none of us would ever come back at all, in which case by a process of

natural devolution, he might find himself the owner of the business and

much valuable property. However, he swore by sundry saints--for Thomaso

was nominally a Catholic--that he would look after everything as though

it were his own, as no doubt he hoped it might become.



“Hearken, fat pig,” said Umslopogaas, Hans obligingly translating so

that there might be no mistake, “if I come back, and come back I shall

who travel with the Great Medicine--and find even one of the cattle of

the white lord, Macumazahn, Watcher-by-Night, missing, or one article

stolen from his waggon, or the fields of your master not cultivated or

his goods wasted, I swear by the Axe that I will hew you into pieces

with the axe; yes, if to do it I have to hunt you from where the sun

rises to where it sets and down the length of the night between. Do

you understand, fat pig, deserter of women and children, who to save

yourself could run faster than a buck?”



Thomaso replied that he understood very clearly indeed, and that, Heaven

helping him, all should be kept safe and sound. Still, I was sure that

in his manly heart he was promising great gifts to the saints if they

would so arrange matters that Umslopogaas and his axe were never seen at

Strathmuir again, and reflecting that after all the Amahagger had their

uses. However, as I did not trust him in the least, much against their

force that no one can resist, and who, having undertaken, has been

carried through them, triumphing over the shrinkings of his flesh by

some secret reserve of nerve power. Almost am I tempted to call it

spirit-power, something that lives beyond and yet inspires our frail and

fallible bodies.



Well, rarely have I been more frightened than I was at this moment.

Actually I hung back until I saw that Hans slithering through the grass

like a thick yellow snake with the great knife in his right hand,

was quite a foot ahead of me. Then my pride came to the rescue and I

spurted, if one can spurt upon one’s stomach, and drew level with him.

After this we went at a pace so slow that any able-bodied snail would

have left us standing still. Inch by inch we crept forward, lying

motionless a while after each convulsive movement, once for quite a

long time, since the left-hand cannibal seemed about to wake up, for he

opened his mouth and yawned. If so, he changed his mind and rolling from

a sitting posture on to his side, went to sleep much more soundly than

before.



A minute or so later the right-hand ruffian, my man, also stirred, so

sharply that I thought he had heard something. Apparently, however, he

was only haunted by dreams resulting from an evil life, or perhaps

by the prescience of its end, for after waving his arm and muttering

something in a frightened voice, he too, wearied out, poor devil, sank

back into sleep.



At last we were on them, but paused because we could not see exactly

where to strike and knew, each of us, that our first blow must be the

last and fatal. A cloud had come up and dimmed what light there was, and

we must wait for it to pass. It was a long wait, or so it seemed.



At length that cloud did pass and in faint outline I saw the classical

head of my Amahagger bowed in deep sleep. With a heart beating as it

does only in the fierce extremities of love or war, I hissed like a


for being brave fellows, after a pause of perhaps five minutes, once

more they charged in a body, hoping to overwhelm us. Again we greeted

them with bullets and knocked out several, whereon the rest threw

a volley of their long spears at us. I was glad to see them do this

although one of the Zulus got his death from it, while two more were

wounded. I myself had a very narrow escape, for a spear passed between

my neck and shoulder. Each of them carried but one of these weapons

and I knew that if they used them up in throwing, only their big knives

would remain to them with which to attack us.



After this discharge of spears which was kept up for some time, they

rushed at us and there followed a great fight. The Zulus, throwing down

their guns, rose to their feet and holding their little fighting shields

which had been carried in their mats, in the left hand, wielded their

axes with the right. Umslopogaas, who stood in the centre of them,

however, had no shield and swung his great axe with both arms. This was

the first time that I had seen him fight and the spectacle was in a way

magnificent. Again and again the axe crashed down and every time it

fell it left one dead beneath the stroke, till at length those Amahagger

shrank back out of his reach.



Meanwhile Robertson, Hans and I, standing on some stones at the back,

kept up a continual fire upon them, shooting over the heads of the

Zulus, who were playing their part like men. Yes, they shrank back,

leaving many dead behind them. Then a captain tried to gather them for

another rush, and once more they moved forward. I killed that captain

with a revolver shot, for my rifle had become too hot to hold, and at

the sight of his fall, they broke and ran back into the little hollow

where our bullets could not reach them.



So far we had held our own, but at a price, for three of the Zulus were

now dead and three more wounded, one of them severely, the other two but



In the end we started, conducted by Billali and by men who carried

torches whereof the light showed me that we were passing between houses,

or at any rate walls that had been those of houses, and along what

seemed to be a paved street.



Walking under what I took to be a great arch or portico, we came into

a court that was full of towering pillars but unroofed, for I could see

the stars above. At its end we entered a building of which the doorway

was hung with mats, to find that it was lighted with lamps and that

all down its length on either side guards with long spears stood at

intervals.



“Oh, Baas,” said Hans hesitatingly, “this is the mouth of a trap,” while

Umslopogaas glared about him suspiciously, fingering the handle of his

great axe.



“Be silent,” I answered. “All this mountain is a trap, therefore another

does not matter, and we have our pistols.”



Walking forward between the double line of guards who stood immovable as

statues, we came to some curtains hung at the end of a long, narrow hall

which, although I know little of such things, were, I noted, made of

rich stuff embroidered in colours and with golden threads. Before these

curtains Billali motioned us to halt.



After a whispered colloquy with someone beyond carried on through the

join of the curtains, he vanished between them, leaving us alone for

five minutes or more. At length they opened and a tall and elegant woman

with an Arab cast of countenance and clad in white robes, appeared and

beckoned to us to enter. She did not speak or answer when I spoke to

her, which was not wonderful as afterwards I discovered that she was a

mute. We went in, I wondering very much what we were going to see.



On the further side of the curtains was a room of no great size

illumined with lamps of which the light fell upon sculptured walls. It

looked to me as though it might once have been the inmost court or a

sanctuary of some temple, for at its head was a dais upon which once

hardly speak with steadiness, “that a woman may be splendid and lovely

beyond anything that the mind of man can conceive, whatever her age, of

which I know nothing. I would add this, Ayesha, that I thank you very

much for having revealed to me the glory that is hid beneath your veil.”



“Why?” she asked, and I thought that I detected curiosity in her

question.



“For this reason, Ayesha. Now there is no fear of my troubling you in

such a fashion as you seemed to dread a little while ago. As soon would

a man desire to court the moon sailing in her silver loveliness through

heaven.”



“The moon! It is strange that you should compare me to the moon,” she

said musingly. “Do you know that the moon was a great goddess in Old

Egypt and that her name was Isis and--well, once I had to do with Isis?

Perhaps you were there and knew it, since more lives than one are given

to most of us. I must search and learn. For the rest, all have not

thought as you do, Allan. Many, on the contrary, love and seek to win

the Divine.”



“So do I at a distance, Ayesha, but to come too near to it I do not

aspire. If I did perhaps I might be consumed.”



“You have wisdom,” she replied, not without a note of admiration in her

voice. “The moths are few that fear the flame, but those are the moths

which live. Also I think that you have scorched your wings before and

learned that fire hurts. Indeed, now I remember that I have heard of

three such fires of love through which you have flown, Allan, though all

of them are dead ashes now, or shine elsewhere. Two burned in your youth

when a certain lady died to save you, a great woman that, is it not so?

And the third, ah! she was fire indeed, though of a copper hue. What was

her name? I cannot remember, but I think it had something to do with the

wind, yes, with the wind when it wails.”



I stared at her. Was this Mameena myth to be dug up again in a secret

nor believe, and oh! you vex me sorely. Now I had it in my mind to

tell you the secret of this long life of mine; long, mark you, but not

endless, for doubtless I must die and change and return again, like

others, and even to show you how it may be won. But you are not worthy

in your faithlessness.”



“No, no, I am not worthy,” I answered, who at that moment did not feel

the least desire to live two thousand years, perhaps with this woman as

a neighbour, rating me from generation to generation. Yet it is true,

that now when I am older and a certain event cannot be postponed much

longer, I do often regret that I neglected to take this unique chance,

if in truth there was one, of prolonging an existence which after all

has its consolations--especially when one has made one’s pile. Certainly

it is a case, a flagrant case, of neglected opportunities, and my only

consolation for having lost them is that this was due to the uprightness

of my nature which made it so hard for me to acquiesce in alternative

statements that I had every cause to disbelieve and thus to give offence

to a very powerful and petulant if attractive lady.



“So that is done with,” she went on with a little stamp of indignation,

“as soon you will be also, who, had you not crossed and doubted me,

might have lived on for untold time and become one of the masters of the

world, as I am.”



Here she paused, choked, I think, with her almost childish anger, and

because I could not help it, I said,



“Such place and power, if they be yours, Ayesha, do not seem to bring

you much reward. If I were a master of the world I do not think that I

should choose to dwell unchangingly among savages who eat men and in

a pile of ruins. But perhaps the curses of Aphrodite and of Isis are

stronger masters still?” and I paused inquiringly.



This bold argument--for now I see that it was bold--seemed to astonish

and even bewilder my wonderful companion.

The mind in its secret places knows all things, O Allan, although it

seems to know little or nothing, and when the breath of vision or the

fury of a soul distraught blows away the veils or burns through the

gates of distance, then for a while it sees and learns, since, whatever

fools may think, often madness is true wisdom. Now follow me with the

little yellow man and the Warrior of the Axe. Stay, let me look upon

that axe.”



I interpreted her wish to Umslopogaas who held it out to her but refused

to loose it from his wrist to which it was attached by the leathern

thong.



“Does the Black One think that I shall cut him down with his own weapon,

I who am so weak and gentle?” she asked, laughing.



“Nay, Ayesha, but it is his law not to part with this Drinker of Lives,

which he names ‘Chieftainess and Groan-maker,’ and clings to closer by

day and night than a man does to his wife.”



“There he is wise, Allan, since a savage captain may get more wives but

never such another axe. The thing is ancient,” she added musingly after

examining its every detail, “and who knows? It may be that whereof the

legend tells which is fated to bring Rezu to the dust. Now ask this

fierce-eyed Slayer whether, armed with his axe he can find courage to

face the most terrible of all men and the strongest, one who is a wizard

also, of whom it is prophesied that only by such an axe as this can he

be made to bite the dust.”



I obeyed. Umslopogaas laughed grimly and answered,



“Say to the White Witch that there is no man living upon the earth whom

I would not face in war, I who have never been conquered in fair fight,

though once a chance blow brought me to the doors of death,” and he

touched the great hole in his forehead. “Say to her also that I have no

fear of defeat, I from whom doom is, as I think, still far away, though

the Opener-of-Roads has told me that among a strange people I shall die

two broad-based ridges, shaped like those that spring from the boles of

certain tropical forest trees, ran from its crest to the plain beneath

at a gentle slope. Moreover I saw that on this plain between the ends

of the ridges an army was encamped which, by the aid of my glasses, I

examined and estimated to number at least ten thousand men.



This army, the Amahagger captains informed me, was that of Rezu, who,

they said, intended to commence his attack at dawn on the following

morning, since the People of Rezu, being sun-worshippers, would never

fight until their god appeared above the horizon. Having studied all

there was to see I asked the captains to set out their plan of battle,

if they had a plan.



The chief of them answered that it was to advance halfway down the

right-hand ridge to a spot where there was a narrow flat piece of

ground, and there await attack, since at this place their smaller

numbers would not so much matter, whereas these made it impossible for

them to assail the enemy.



“But suppose that Rezu should choose to come up to the other ridge and

get behind you. What would happen then?” I inquired.



He replied that he did not know, his ideas of strategy being, it was

clear, of a primitive order.



“Do your people fight best at night or in the day?” I went on.



He said undoubtedly at night, indeed in all their history there was no

record of their having done so in the daytime.



“And yet you propose to let Rezu join battle with you when the sun is

high, or in other words to court defeat,” I remarked.



Then I went aside and discussed things for a while with Umslopogaas and

Hans, after which I returned and gave my orders, declining all argument.

Briefly these were that in the dusk before the rising of the moon, our

Amahagger must advance down the right-hand ridge in complete silence,

and hide themselves among the scrub which I saw grew thickly near its

root. A small party, however, under the leadership of Goroko, whom I

about fifty yards away.



“Leave him to me,” shouted Umslopogaas. “Steel cuts where bullets cannot

pierce,” and with a bound like to that of a buck, the great Zulu leapt

away after him.



I think that Rezu meant to enter the hut for some purpose of his own,

but Umslopogaas was too hard upon his tracks. At any rate he ran past it

and down the other slope of the little hill on to the plain behind where

the remnants of his army were trying to re-form. There in front of them

the giant turned and stood at bay.



Umslopogaas halted also, waiting for us to come up, since, cunning old

warrior as he was, he feared lest should he begin the fight before that

happened, the horde of them would fall on him. Thirty seconds later

we arrived and found him standing still with bent body, small shield

advanced and the great axe raised as though in the act of striking, a

wondrous picture outlined as it was against the swiftly rising-sun.



Some ten paces away stood the giant leaning on the axe he bore, which

was not unlike to that with which woodmen fell big trees. He was an evil

man to see and at this, my first full sight of him, I likened him in

my mind to Goliath whom David overthrew. Huge he was and hairy, with

deep-set, piercing eyes and a great hooked nose. His face seemed thin

and ancient also, when with a motion of the great head, he tossed his

long locks back from about it, but his limbs were those of a Hercules

and his movements full of a youthful vigour. Moreover his aspect as a

whole was that of a devil rather than of a man; indeed the sight of it

sickened me.



“Let me shoot him,” I cried to Umslopogaas, for I had reloaded the rifle

as I ran.



“Nay, Watcher-by-Night,” answered the Zulu without moving his head,

“rifle has had its chance and failed. Now let us see what axe can do. If

I cannot kill this man, I will be borne hence feet first who shall have

the square and the Amahagger began to run, without doubt it was the

Great Medicine which changed their hearts and made them brave again, so

that they charged at the right moment when they saw it going forward on

your breast, and instead of being eaten up, ate up the cannibals.”



“Indeed! I thought that the Lady who dwells yonder had something to do

with that business. Did you see her, Hans?”



“Oh, yes! I saw her, Baas, and I think that without doubt she lifted the

cloth from over her head and when the people of Rezu saw how ugly was

the face beneath, it did frighten them a little. But doubtless the Great

Medicine put that thought into her also, for, Baas, what could a silly

woman do in such a case? Did you ever know of a woman who was of any use

in a battle, or for anything else except to nurse babies, and this one

does not even do that, no doubt because being so hideous under that

sheet, no man can be found to marry her.”



Now I looked up by chance and in the light of the lamps saw Ayesha

standing in the room, which she had entered through the open doorway,

within six feet of Hans’ back indeed.



“Be sure Baas,” he went on, “that this bundle of rags is nothing but a

common old cheat who frightens people by pretending to be a spook, as,

if she dared to say that it was she who made those stinking Amahagger

charge, and not the Great Medicine of the Opener-of-Roads, I would tell

her to her face.”



Now I was too paralysed to speak, and while I was reflecting that it was

fortunate Ayesha did not understand Dutch, she moved a little so that

one of the lamps behind her caused her shadow to fall on to the back

of the squatting Hans and over it on to the floor beyond. He saw it and

stared at the distorted shape of the hooded head, then slowly screwed

his neck round and looked upwards behind him.



For a moment he went on staring as though he were frozen, then uttering



“I never thought of that, Baas,” commented Hans, “but it is true that

all gifts are not good, especially witches’ gifts.”



As he spoke the little net-like lightnings died away, leaving behind

them a gross darkness through which, far above us, the wind wailed

again.



Then suddenly all the heaven was turned into one blaze of light, and by

it I saw Ayesha standing tall and rigid with her hand pointed towards

the line of men in front of her. The blaze went out, to be followed by

blackness, and to return almost instantly in a yet fiercer blaze which

seemed to fall earthwards in a torrent of fire that concentrated itself

in a kind of flame-spout upon the spot where Ayesha stood.



Through that flame or rather in the heart of it, I saw Ayesha and the

file of men in front of her, as the great King saw the prophets in the

midst of the furnace that had been heated sevenfold. Only these men did

not walk about in the fire; no, they fell backwards, while Ayesha alone

remained upon her feet with outstretched hand.



Next came more blackness and crash upon crash of such thunder that the

earth shook as it reverberated from the mountain cliffs. Never in my

life did I hear such fearful thunder. It frightened the Zulus so much,

that they fell upon their faces, except Goroko and Umslopogaas, whose

pride kept them upon their feet, the former because he had a reputation

to preserve as a “Heaven-herd,” or Master of tempests.



I confess that I should have liked to follow their example, and lie

down, being dreadfully afraid lest the lightning should strike me. But

there--I did not.



At last the thunder died away and in the most mysterious fashion that

violent tempest came to a sudden end, as does a storm upon the stage. No

rain fell, which in itself was surprising enough and most unusual,

but in place of it a garment of the completest calm descended upon

the earth. By degrees, too, the darkness passed and the westering sun

reappeared. Its rays fell upon the place where the Amahagger companies

hither shore, it nosed the earth and ran to the ruby stone and stared

about it whining and sniffing.



At last it seemed to see or feel me, for it stood upon its hind legs

and licked my face, yelping with mad joy, as I could see though I

heard nothing. Now I wept in earnest and bent down to hug and kiss the

faithful beast, but this I could not do, since like myself it was only

shadow.





Then suddenly all dissolved in a cataract of many-coloured flames and I

fell down into an infinite gulf of blackness.





Surely Ayesha was talking to me! What did she say? What did she say? I

could not catch her words, but I caught her laughter and knew that after

her fashion she was making a mock of me. My eyelids were dragged down

as though with heavy sleep; it was difficult to lift them. At last they

were open and I saw Ayesha seated on her couch before me and--this I

noted at once--with her lovely face unveiled. I looked about me, seeking

Umslopogaas and Hans. But they were gone as I guessed they must be,

since otherwise Ayesha would not have been unveiled. We were quite

alone. She was addressing me and in a new fashion, since now she

had abandoned the formal “you” and was using the more impressive and

intimate “thou,” much as is the manner of the French.



“Thou hast made thy journey, Allan,” she said, “and what thou hast

seen there thou shalt tell me presently. Yet from thy mien I gather

this--that thou art glad to look upon flesh and blood again and, after

the company of spirits, to find that of mortal woman. Come then and sit

beside me and tell thy tale.”



“Where are the others?” I asked as I rose slowly to obey, for my head

swam and my feet seemed feeble.



“Gone, Allan, who as I think have had enough of ghosts, which is perhaps

thy case also. Come, drink this and be a man once more. Drink it to me

whose skill and power have brought thee safe from lands that human feet

“Hadst thou been other than thou art, I might have shown thee secrets,

making clear to thee the parable of much that I have told thee in

metaphor and varying fable, aye, and given thee great gifts of power

and enduring days of which thou knowest nothing. But of those who visit

shrines, O Allan, two things are required, worship and faith, since

without these the oracles are dumb and the healing waters will not flow.



“Now I, Ayesha, am a shrine; yet to me thou broughtest no worship until

I won it by a woman’s trick, and in me thou hast no faith. Therefore for

thee the oracle will not speak and the waters of deliverance will not

flow. Yet I blame thee not, who art as thou wast made and the hard world

has shaped thee.



“And so we part: Think not I am far from thee because thou seest me not

in the days to come, since like that Isis whose majesty alone I still

exercise on earth, I, whom men name Ayesha, am in all things. I tell

thee that I am not One but Many and, being many, am both Here and

Everywhere. When thou standest beneath the sky at night and lookest on

the stars, remember that in them mine eyes behold thee; when the soft

winds of evening blow, that my breath is on thy brow and when the

thunder rolls, that there am I riding on the lightnings and rushing with

the gale.”



“Do you mean that you are the goddess Isis?” I asked, bewildered.

“Because if so why did you tell me that you were but her priestess?”



“Have it as thou wilt, Allan. All sounds do not reach thine ears; all

sights are not open to thy eyes and therefore thou art both half deaf

and blind. Perchance now that her shrines are dust and her worship is

forgot, some spark of the spirit of that immortal Lady whose chariot was

the moon, lingers on the earth in this woman’s shape of mine, though her

essence dwells afar, and perchance her other name is Nature, my mother

and thine, O Allan. At the least hath not the World a soul--and of that

because it wished to get back to its mother which it loved, and that it

was cruel to separate it from its mother.



We made good progress and by the evening of the first day were over the

crest of the cliff or volcano lip that encircles the great plain of Kôr,

and descending rapidly to a sheltered spot on the outer slope where our

camp was to be set for the night.



Not very far from this place, as I think I have mentioned, stood, and I

suppose still stands, a very curious pinnacle of rock, which, doubtless

being of some harder sort, had remained when, hundreds of thousands or

millions of years before, the surrounding lava had been washed or had

corroded away. This rock pillar was perhaps fifty feet high and as

smooth as though it had been worked by man; indeed, I remembered having

remarked to Hans, or Umslopogaas--I forget which--when we passed it on

our inward journey, that there was a column which no monkey could climb.



As we went by it for the second time, the sun had already disappeared

behind the western cliff, but a fierce ray from its sinking orb, struck

upon a storm-cloud that hung over us, and thence was reflected in a

glow of angry light of which the focus or centre seemed to fall upon the

summit of this strange and obelisk-like pinnacle of rock.



At the moment I was out of my litter and walking with Umslopogaas at

the end of the line, to make sure that no one straggled in the oncoming

darkness. When we had passed the column by some forty or fifty yards,

something caused Umslopogaas to turn and look back. He uttered an

exclamation which made me follow his example, with the result that I saw

a very wonderful thing. For there on the point of the pillar, like St.

Simeon Stylites on his famous column, glowing in the sunset rays as

though she were on fire, stood Ayesha herself!



It was a strange and in a way a glorious sight, for poised thus between

earth and heaven, she looked like some glowing angel rather than

