a more gentle fashion; others are hidden from us, we know  not where. We might well fear to return to that land lest we  also should see ghosts. But though we walk apart to-day, the  past yet looks upon us with its unalterable eyes. Still we  can remember many a boyish enterprise and adventure, lightly  undertaken, which now would strike us as hazardous indeed.  Still we can recall the long familiar line of the Pretoria  Horse, the face of war and panic, the weariness of midnight  patrols; aye, and hear the roar of guns echoed from the  Shameful Hill.    To you then, Macumazahn, in perpetual memory of those  eventful years of youth which we passed together in the  African towns and on the African veldt, I dedicate these  pages, subscribing myself now as always,    Your sincere friend,    Indanda.    To Arthur H. D. Cochrane, Esq.          ALLAN’S WIFE        CHAPTER I    EARLY DAYS    It may be remembered that in the last pages of his diary, written just  before his death, Allan Quatermain makes allusion to his long dead wife,  stating that he has written of her fully elsewhere.    When his death was known, his papers were handed to myself as his  literary executor. Among them I found two manuscripts, of which the  following is one. The other is simply a record of events wherein Mr.  Quatermain was not personally concerned--a Zulu novel, the story of  which was told to him by the hero many years after the tragedy had  occurred. But with this we have nothing to do at present.   
  I cried very much, and he took me downstairs, and after that I have only  a confused memory of men dressed in black carrying heavy burdens towards  the grey churchyard!    Next comes a vision of a great ship and wide tossing waters. My father  could no longer bear to live in England after the loss that had fallen  on him, and made up his mind to emigrate to South Africa. We must have  been poor at the time--indeed, I believe that a large portion of  our income went from my father on my mother’s death. At any rate we  travelled with the steerage passengers, and the intense discomfort of  the journey with the rough ways of our fellow emigrants still remain  upon my mind. At last it came to an end, and we reached Africa, which I  was not to leave again for many, many years.    In those days civilization had not made any great progress in Southern  Africa. My father went up the country and became a missionary among the  Kaffirs, near to where the town of Cradock now stands, and here I grew  to manhood. There were a few Boer farmers in the neighbourhood, and  gradually a little settlement of whites gathered round our mission  station--a drunken Scotch blacksmith and wheelwright was about the most  interesting character, who, when he was sober, could quote the Scottish  poet Burns and the Ingoldsby Legends, then recently published, literally  by the page. It was from that I contracted a fondness for the latter  amusing writings, which has never left me. Burns I never cared for so  much, probably because of the Scottish dialect which repelled me. What  little education I got was from my father, but I never had much leaning  towards books, nor he much time to teach them to me. On the other hand,  I was always a keen observer of the ways of men and nature. By the time  that I was twenty I could speak Dutch and three or four Kaffir dialects  perfectly, and I doubt if there was anybody in South Africa who  understood native ways of thought and action more completely than I  did. Also I was really a very good shot and horseman, and I think--as, 
quiet. Oh, yes, let him curse away, I’ll put him out presently. Look  now, white man.”    I looked, and in the eastern sky there grew a cloud. At first it was  small, though very black, but it gathered with extraordinary rapidity.    This was odd enough, but as I had seen the same thing happen before it  did not particularly astonish me. It is by no means unusual in Africa  for two thunderstorms to come up at the same time from different points  of the compass.    “You had better get on, Indaba-zimbi,” I said, “the big storm is coming  along fast, and will soon eat up that baby of yours,” and I pointed to  the west.    “Babies sometimes grow to giants, white man,” said Indaba-zimbi,  beckoning away vigorously. “Look now at my cloud-child.”    I looked; the eastern storm was spreading itself from earth to sky, and  in shape resembled an enormous man. There was its head, its shoulders,  and its legs; yes, it was like a huge giant travelling across the  heavens. The light of the setting sun escaping from beneath the lower  edge of the western storm shot across the intervening space in a sheet  of splendour, and, lighting upon the advancing figure of cloud, wrapped  its middle in hues of glory too wonderful to be described; but beneath  and above this glowing belt his feet and head were black as jet.  Presently, as I watched, an awful flash of light shot from the head of  the cloud, circled it about as though with a crown of living fire, and  vanished.    “Aha,” chuckled old Indaba-zimbi, “my little boy is putting on his man’s  ring,” and he tapped the gum ring on his own head, which natives assume  when they reach a certain age and dignity. “Now, white man, unless you  are a bigger wizard than either of us you had better clear off, for the  fire-fight is about to begin.”    I thought this sound advice.    “Good luck go with you, my black uncle,” I said. “I hope you don’t feel  the iniquities of a mis-spent life weighing on you at the last.”  
When he had been with us a year, a deputation came to him from the tribe  he had left, asking him to return. Things had not gone well with them  since he went away, they said, and now the chief, his enemy, was  dead. Old Indaba-zimbi listened to them till they had done, and, as he  listened, raked sand into a little heap with his toes. Then he spoke,  pointing to the little heap, “There is your tribe to-day,” he said.  Then he lifted his heel and stamped the heap flat. “There is your tribe  before three moons are gone. Nothing is left of it. You drove me away: I  will have no more to do with you; but when you are being killed think of  my words.”    The messengers went. Three months afterwards I heard that the whole  community had been wiped out by an Impi of raiding Pondos.    When I was at length ready to start upon my expedition, I went to old  Indaba-zimbi to say good-bye to him, and was rather surprised to find  him engaged in rolling up medicine, assegais, and other sundries in his  blankets.    “Good-bye, Indaba-zimbi,” I said, “I am going to trek north.”    “Yes, Macumazahn,” he answered, with his head on one side; “and so am  I--I want to see that country. We will go together.”    “Will we!” I said; “wait till you are asked, you old humbug.”    “You had better ask me, then, Macumazahn, for if you don’t you will  never come back alive. Now that the old chief (my father) is gone to  where the storms come from,” and he nodded to the sky, “I feel myself  getting into bad habits again. So last night I just threw up the bones  and worked out about your journey, and I can tell you this, that if you  don’t take me you will die, and, what is more, you will lose one who is  dearer to you than life in a strange fashion. So just because you gave  me that hint a couple of years ago, I made up my mind to come with you.”    “Don’t talk stuff to me,” I said. 
  By this time, what between fright and struggling, I was pretty well  tired. I cannot remember how I got from under the fallen tree, or indeed  anything, until I found myself sitting on the ground drinking some peach  brandy from a flask, and old Indaba-zimbi opposite to me nodding  his white lock sagely, while he fired off moral reflections on the  narrowness of my escape, and my unwisdom in not having taken his advice  to go on foot. That reminded me of my horse--I got up and went to look  at it. It was quite dead, the blow of the elephant’s trunk had fallen  on the saddle, breaking the framework, and rendering it useless. I  reflected that in another two seconds it would have fallen on _me_. Then  I called to Indaba-zimbi and asked which way the elephants had gone.    “There!” he said, pointing down the gully, “and we had better go after  them, Macumazahn. We have had the bad luck, now for the good.”    There was philosophy in this, though, to tell the truth, I did not feel  particularly sharp set on elephants at the moment. I seemed to have had  enough of them. However, it would never do to show the white feather  before the boys, so I assented with much outward readiness, and we  started, I on the second horse, and the others on foot. When we had  travelled for the best part of an hour down the valley, all of a sudden  we came upon the whole herd, which numbered a little more than eighty.  Just in front of them the bush was so thick that they seemed to hesitate  about entering it, and the sides of the valley were so rocky and steep  at this point that they could not climb them.    They saw us at the same moment as we saw them, and inwardly I was filled  with fears lest they should take it into their heads to charge back up  the gully. But they did not; trumpeting aloud, they rushed at the thick  bush which went down before them like corn before a sickle. I do not  think that in all my experiences I ever heard anything to equal the 
  “What is it?” I asked.    “This. Leave your waggons here, jump on that horse, and let us two run  for it as hard as we can go. The Zulus won’t follow us, they will be  looking after the Boers.”    “I won’t leave the other white men,” I said; “it would be the act of a  coward. If I die, I die.”    “Very well, Macumazahn, then stay and be killed,” he answered, taking  a pinch of snuff. “Come, let us see about the waggons,” and we walked  towards the laager.    Here everything was in confusion. However, I got hold of Hans Botha and  put it to him if it would not be best to desert the waggons and make a  run for it.    “How can we do it?” he answered; “two of the women are too fat to go  a mile, one is sick in childbed, and we have only six horses among us.  Besides, if we did we should starve in the desert. No, Heer Allan, we  must fight it out with the savages, and God help us!”    “God help us, indeed. Think of the children, Hans!”    “I can’t bear to think,” he answered, in a broken voice, looking at his  own little girl, a sweet, curly-haired, blue-eyed child of six, named  Tota, whom I had often nursed as a baby. “Oh, Heer Allan, your father,  the Predicant, always warned me against trekking north, and I never  would listen to him because I thought him a cursed Englishman; now I see  my folly. Heer Allan, if you can, try to save my child from those black  devils; if you live longer than I do, or if you can’t save her, kill  her,” and he clasped my hand.    “It hasn’t come to that yet, Hans,” I said.    Then we set to work on the laager. The waggons, of which, including  my two, there were ten, were drawn into the form of a square, and the  disselboom of each securely lashed with reims to the underworks of that  in front of it. The wheels also were locked, and the space between the  
to kill you before we get the cattle, they may have trekked too far for  us to follow. And if you try to run away we shall easily catch you white  men!”    This struck me as a very odd speech, for the Zulus generally attack an  enemy first and take his cattle afterwards; still, there was a certain  amount of plausibility about it. While I was still wondering what it  all might mean, the Zulus began to run past us in companies towards the  river. Suddenly a shout announced that they had found the spoor of the  cattle, and the whole Impi of them started down it at a run till they  vanished over a rise about a quarter of a mile away.    We waited for half an hour or more, but nothing could we see of them.    “Now I wonder if the devils have really gone,” said Hans Botha to me.  “It is very strange.”    “I will go and see,” said Indaba-zimbi, “if you will come with me,  Macumazahn. We can creep to the top of the ridge and look over.”    At first I hesitated, but curiosity overcame me. I was young in those  days and weary with suspense.    “Very well,” I said, “we will go.”    So we started. I had my elephant gun and ammunition. Indaba-zimbi had  his medicine bag and an assegai. We crept to the top of the rise like  sportsmen stalking a buck. The slope on the other side was strewn with  rocks, among which grew bushes and tall grass.    “They must have gone down the Donga,” I said to Indaba-zimbi, “I can’t  see one of them.”    As I spoke there came a roar of men all round me. From every rock, from  every tuft of grass rose a Zulu warrior. Before I could turn, before I  could lift a gun, I was seized and thrown.    “Hold him! Hold the White Spirit fast!” cried a voice. “Hold him, or  he will slip away like a snake. Don’t hurt him, but hold him fast. Let  Indaba-zimbi walk by his side.”    I turned on Indaba-zimbi. “You black devil, you have betrayed me!” I 
that if I did so the child’s life should be given to me. Indaba-zimbi  interpreted my words, but I noticed that he would not look on me as  he spoke, but covered his face with his hands and spoke of me as “the  ghost” or the “son of the spirit.” For some reason that I have never  quite understood, the chief consented to the duel. I fancy it was  because he believed me to be more than mortal, and was anxious to see  the last of Bombyane.    “Let them fight,” he said. “Give them assegais and no shields; the child  shall be to him who conquers.”    “Yes! yes!” cried the soldiers. “Let them fight. Don’t be afraid,  Bombyane; if he is a spirit, he’s a very small one.”    “I never was frightened of man or beast, and I am not going to run away  from a White Ghost,” answered the redoubtable Bombyane, as he examined  the blade of his great bangwan or stabbing assegai.    Then they made a ring round us, gave me a similar assegai, and set us  some ten paces apart. I kept my face as calm as I could, and tried to  show no signs of fear, though in my heart I was terribly afraid. Humanly  speaking, my doom was on me. The giant warrior before me had used the  assegai from a child--I had no experience of the weapon. Moreover,  though I was quick and active, he must have been at least twice as  strong as I am. However, there was no help for it, so, setting my teeth,  I grasped the great spear, breathed a prayer, and waited.    The giant stood awhile looking at me, and, as he stood, Indaba-zimbi  walked across the ring behind me, muttering as he passed, “Keep cool,  Macumazahn, and wait for him. I will make it all right.”    As I had not the slightest intention of commencing the fray, I thought  this good advice, though how Indaba-zimbi could “make it all right” I  failed to see.    Heavens! how long that half-minute seemed! It happened many years ago,  but the whole scene rises up before my eyes as I write. There behind us 
  STELLA    I was not slow to take Indaba-zimbi’s hint. About a hundred and fifty  yards to the left of the laager was a little dell where I had hidden  my horse, together with one belonging to the Boers, and my saddle and  bridle. Thither we went, I carrying the swooning Tota in my arms. To our  joy we found the horses safe, for the Zulus had not seen them. Now, of  course, they were our only means of locomotion, for the oxen had been  sent away, and even had they been there we could not have found time to  inspan them. I laid Tota down, caught my horse, undid his knee halter,  and saddled up. As I was doing so a thought struck me, and I told  Indaba-zimbi to run to the laager and see if he could find my  double-barrelled gun and some powder and shot, for I had only my  elephant “roer” and a few charges of powder and ball with me.    He went, and while he was away, poor little Tota came to herself and  began to cry, till she saw my face.    “Ah, I have had such a bad dream,” she said, in Dutch: “I dreamed that  the black Kaffirs were going to kill me. Where is my papa?”    I winced at the question. “Your papa has gone on a journey, dear,” I  said, “and left me to look after you. We shall find him one day. You  don’t mind going with Heer Allan, do you?”    “No,” she said, a little doubtfully, and began to cry again. Presently  she remembered that she was thirsty, and asked for water. I led her to  the river and she drank. “Why is my hand red, Heer Allan?” she asked,  pointing to the smear of Bombyane’s blood-stained fingers.    At this moment I felt very glad that I had killed Bombyane.    “It is only paint, dear,” I said; “see, we will wash it and your face.”    As I was doing this, Indaba-zimbi returned. The guns were all gone;  he said the Zulus had taken them and the powder. But he had found some  things and brought them in a sack. There was a thick blanket, about 
and, looking at the country beyond, I gave an exclamation of dismay. To  say that it was desert would be saying too much; it was more like the  Karroo in the Cape--a vast sandy waste, studded here and there with low  shrubs and scattered rocks. But it was a great expanse of desolate land,  stretching further than the eye could reach, and bordered far away by  a line of purple hills, in the centre of which a great solitary peak  soared high into the air.    “Indaba-zimbi,” I said, “we can never cross this if we take six days.”    “As you will, Macumazahn,” he answered; “but I tell you that there”--and  he pointed to the peak--“there the white man lives. Turn which way you  like, but if you turn you will perish.”    I reflected for a moment, Our case was, humanly speaking, almost  hopeless. It mattered little which way we went. We were alone, almost  without food, with no means of transport, and a child to carry. As well  perish in the sandy waste as on the rolling veldt or among the trees  of the hill-side. Providence alone could save us, and we must trust to  Providence.    “Come on,” I said, lifting Tota on to my back, for she was already  tired. “All roads lead to rest.”    How am I to describe the misery of the next four days? How am I to tell  how we stumbled on through that awful desert, almost without food, and  quite without water, for there were no streams, and we saw no springs?  We soon found how the case was, and saved almost all the water in our  bottles for the child. To look back on it is like a nightmare. I can  scarcely bear to dwell on it. Day after day, by turns carrying the  child through the heavy sand; night after night lying down in the scrub,  chewing the leaves, and licking such dew as there was from the scanty  grass! Not a spring, not a pool, not a head of game! It was the third  night; we were nearly mad with thirst. Tota was in a comatose condition.  Indaba-zimbi still had a little water in his bottle--perhaps a 
was I who put out the fire; my wrists were burnt in doing so.”    Then for a space we sat silent, looking at each other, while Stella  slowly fanned herself with her wide felt hat, in which some white  ostrich plumes were fixed.    “This is God’s doing,” she said at last. “You saved my life when I was  a child; now I have saved yours and the little girl’s. Is she your own  daughter?” she added, quickly.    “No,” I answered; “I will tell you the tale presently.”    “Yes,” she said, “you shall tell me as we go home. It is time to be  starting home, it will take us three hours to get there. Hendrika,  Hendrika, bring the horses here!”        CHAPTER VII    THE BABOON-WOMAN    Hendrika obeyed, leading the horses to the side of the tree.    “Now, Mr. Allan,” said Stella, “you must ride on my horse, and the old  black man must ride on the other. I will walk, and Hendrika will carry  the child. Oh, do not be afraid, she is very strong, she could carry you  or me.”    Hendrika grunted assent. I am sorry that I cannot express her method  of speech by any more polite term. Sometimes she grunted like a monkey,  sometimes she clicked like a Bushman, and sometimes she did both  together, when she became quite unintelligible.    I expostulated against this proposed arrangement, saying that we could  walk, which was a fib, for I do not think that I could have done a mile;  but Stella would not listen, she would not even let me carry my elephant  gun, but took it herself. So we mounted with some difficulty, and  Hendrika took up the sleeping Tota in her long, sinewy arms.    “See that the ‘Baboon-woman’ does not run away into the mountains with  the little white one,” said Indaba-zimbi to me in Kaffir, as he climbed  slowly on to the horse.    Unfortunately Hendrika understood his speech. Her face twisted and grew  livid with fury. She put down Tota and literally sprang at Indaba-zimbi  as a monkey springs. But weary and worn as he was, the old gentleman 
hundred or a thousand yards across by three-quarters of a mile in depth.  At the back of this indentation the sheer cliff rose to the height of  several hundred feet, and behind it and above it the great Babyan Peak  towered up towards the heavens. The space of ground, embraced thus in  the arms of the mountain, as it were, was laid out, as though by the  cunning hand of man, in three terraces that rose one above the other. To  the right and left of the topmost terrace were chasms in the cliff, and  down each chasm fell a waterfall, from no great height, indeed, but of  considerable volume. These two streams flowed away on either side of  the enclosed space, one towards the north, and the other, the course  of which we had been following, round the base of the mountain. At each  terrace they made a cascade, so that the traveller approaching had a  view of eight waterfalls at once. Along the edge of the stream to our  left were placed Kaffir kraals, built in orderly groups with verandahs,  after the Basutu fashion, and a very large part of the entire space of  land was under cultivation. All of this I noted at once, as well as the  extraordinary richness and depth of the soil, which for many ages past  had been washed down from the mountain heights. Then following the line  of an excellent waggon road, on which we now found ourselves, that wound  up from terrace to terrace, my eye lit upon the crowning wonder of the  scene. For in the centre of the topmost platform or terrace, which may  have enclosed eight or ten acres of ground, and almost surrounded by  groves of orange trees, gleamed buildings of which I had never seen the  like. There were three groups of them, one in the middle, and one on  either side, and a little to the rear, but, as I afterwards discovered,  the plan of all was the same. In the centre was an edifice constructed  like an ordinary Zulu hut--that is to say, in the shape of a beehive,  only it was five times the size of any hut I ever saw, and built  of blocks of hewn white marble, fitted together with extraordinary 
“Be careful, Hendrika; you are spilling the coffee,” said Stella. “Don’t  you wonder how we come to have coffee here, Mr. Allan? I will tell  you--we grow it. That was my idea. Oh, I have lots of things to show  you. You don’t know what we have managed to do in the time that we have  been here. You see we have plenty of labour, for the people about look  upon my father as their chief.”    “Yes,” I said, “but how do you get all these luxuries of civilization?”  and I pointed to the books, the crockery, and the knives and forks.    “Very simply. Most of the books my father brought with him when we first  trekked into the wilds; there was nearly a waggon load of them. But  every few years we have sent an expedition of three waggons right down  to Port Natal. The waggons are loaded with ivory and other goods, and  come back with all kinds of things that been sent out from England  for us. So you see, although we live in this wild place, we are not  altogether cut off. We can send runners to Natal and back in three  months, and the waggons get there and back in a year. The last lot  arrived quite safe about three months ago. Our servants are very  faithful, and some of them speak Dutch well.”    “Have you ever been with the waggons?” I asked.    “Since I was a child I have never been more than thirty miles from  Babyan’s Peak,” she answered. “Do you know, Mr. Allan, that you are,  with one exception, the first Englishman that I have known out of a  book. I suppose that I must seem very wild and savage to you, but I have  had one advantage--a good education. My father has taught me everything,  and perhaps I know some things that you don’t. I can read French and  German, for instance. I think that my father’s first idea was to let me  run wild altogether, but he gave it up.”    “And don’t you wish to go into the world?” I asked.    “Sometimes,” she said, “when I get lonely. But perhaps my father is 
wrapping the fair form of nature as in a silver bridal veil through  which her beauty shone mysteriously.    Stella looked down the terraced valley; she turned and looked up at the  scarred face of the golden moon, and then she looked at me. The beauty  of the night was about her face, the scent of the night was on her hair,  the mystery of the night shone in her shadowed eyes. She looked at me, I  looked on her, and all our hearts’ love blossomed within us. We spoke no  word--we had no words to speak, but slowly we drew near, till lips were  pressed to lips as we kissed our eternal troth.    It was she who broke that holy silence, speaking in a changed voice,  in soft deep notes that thrilled me like the lowest chords of a smitten  harp.    “Ah, now I understand,” she said, “now I know why we are lonely, and how  we can lose our loneliness. Now I know what it is that stirs us in the  beauty of the sky, in the sound of water and in the scent of flowers.  It is Love who speaks in everything, though till we hear his voice we  understand nothing. But when we hear, then the riddle is answered and  the gates of our heart are opened, and, Allan, we see the way that wends  through death to heaven, and is lost in the glory of which our love is  but a shadow.    “Let us go in, Allan. Let us go before the spell breaks, so that  whatever overtakes us, sorrow, death, or separation, we may always have  this perfect memory to save us. Come, dearest, let us go!”    I rose like a man in a dream, still holding her by the hand. But as I  rose my eye fell upon something that gleamed white among the foliage  of the orange bush at my side. I said nothing, but looked. The breeze  stirred the orange leaves, the moonlight struck for a moment full upon  the white object.    It was the face of Hendrika, the Babyan-woman, as Indaba-zimbi had  called her, and on it was a glare of hate that made me shudder. 
  “Macumazahn,” he said at length, “I have told you that this is an evil  woman. She was nourished on baboon milk, and the baboon nature is in  her veins. Such creatures should be killed, not kept. She will make you  mischief if she can. But I will watch her, Macumazahn. Look, the Star is  waiting for you; go, or she will hate me as Hendrika hates you.”    So I went, nothing loth, for attractive as was the wisdom of  Indaba-zimbi, I found a deeper meaning in Stella’s simplest word. All  the rest of that day I passed in her company, and the greater part of  the two following days. At last came Saturday night, the eve of our  marriage. It rained that night, so we did not go out, but spent the  evening in the hut. We sat hand in hand, saying little, but Mr. Carson  talked a good deal, telling us tales of his youth, and of countries  that he had visited. Then he read aloud from the Bible, and bade us  goodnight. I also kissed Stella and went to bed. I reached my hut by  the covered way, and before I undressed opened the door to see what the  night was like. It was very dark, and rain was still falling, but as  the light streamed out into the gloom I fancied that I caught sight of  a dusky form gliding away. The thought of Hendrika flashed into my mind;  could she be skulking about outside there? Now I had said nothing of  Hendrika and her threats either to Mr. Carson or Stella, because I did  not wish to alarm them. Also I knew that Stella was attached to this  strange person, and I did not wish to shake her confidence in her unless  it was absolutely necessary. For a minute or two I stood hesitating,  then, reflecting that if it was Hendrika, there she should stop, I went  in and put up the stout wooden bar that was used to secure the door. For  the last few nights old Indaba-zimbi had made a habit of sleeping in the  covered passage, which was the only other possible way of access. As I  came to bed I had stepped over him rolled up in his blanket, and to all 
unseen by us, had been led out of the prison hut.    “Yes, yes, we know her,” said a little ring of headmen, who formed  the primitive court of justice, and after the fashion of natives had  squatted themselves in a circle on the ground in front of us. “We know  her, she is the white Babyan-woman, she is Hendrika, the body servant of  the Star.”    “You know her,” said Mr. Carson, “but you do not know her altogether.  Stand forward, Indaba-zimbi, and tell the people what came about last  night in the hut of Macumazahn.”    Accordingly old Indaba-zimbi came forward, and, squatting down, told his  moving tale with much descriptive force and many gestures, finishing up  by producing the great knife from which his watchfulness had saved me.    Then I was called upon, and in a few brief words substantiated his  story: indeed my face did that in the sight of all men.    Then Mr. Carson turned to Hendrika, who stood in sullen silence, her  eyes fixed upon the ground, and asked her if she had anything to say.    She looked up boldly and answered--    “Macumazahn has robbed me of the love of my mistress. I would have  robbed him of his life, which is a little thing compared to that which I  have lost at his hands. I have failed, and I am sorry for it, for had I  killed him and left no trace the Star would have forgotten him and shone  on me again.”    “Never,” murmured Stella in my ear; but Mr. Carson turned white with  wrath.    “My people,” he said, “you hear the words of this woman. You hear how  she pays me back, me and my daughter whom she swears she loves. She says  that she would have murdered a man who has done her no evil, the man who  is the husband of her mistress. We saved her from the babyans, we tamed  her, we fed her, we taught her, and this is how she pays us back. Say,  my people, what reward should be given to her?”    “Death,” said the circle of indunas, pointing their thumbs downwards, 
that her dear father was dead she would be glad to get away.    Nothing happened to disturb us that night, and on the following morning  I was up early making preparations. The despair of the people when they  learned that we were going to leave them was something quite pitiable. I  could only console them by declaring that we were but on a journey, and  would return the following year.    “They had lived in the shadow of their father, who was dead,” they  declared; “ever since they were little they had lived in his shadow. He  had received them when they were outcasts and wanderers without a mat  to lie on, or a blanket to cover them, and they had grown fat in his  shadow. Then he had died, and the Star, their father’s daughter, had  married me, Macumazahn, and they had believed that I should take their  father’s place, and let them live in my shadow. What should they do when  there was no one to protect them? The tribes were kept from attacking  them by fear of the white man. If we went they would be eaten up,” and  so on. Alas! there was but too much foundation for their fears.    I returned to the huts at mid-day to get some dinner. Stella said  that she was going to pack during the afternoon, so I did not think it  necessary to caution her about going out alone, as I did not wish to  allude to the subject of Hendrika and the baboons unless I was obliged  to. I told her, however, that I would come back to help her as soon as  I could get away. Then I went down to the native kraals to sort out such  cattle as had belonged to Mr. Carson from those which belonged to the  Kaffirs, for I proposed to take them with us. It was a large herd,  and the business took an incalculable time. At length, a little before  sundown, I gave it up, and leaving Indaba-zimbi to finish the job, got  on my horse and rode homewards.    Arriving, I gave the horse to one of the stable boys, and went into the  central hut. There was no sign of Stella, though the things she had 
  “Bah! Macumazahn. How could I seem to die and go rotten before your  eyes? You don’t know, do you? Well, I will tell you one thing. I had to  die to pass the doors of space, as you call them. I had to draw all the  healthy strength and life from my body in order to gather power to speak  with the Star. It was a dangerous business, Macumazahn, for if I had let  things go a little further they must have stopped so, and there would  have been an end of Indaba-zimbi. Ah, you white men, you know so much  that you think you know everything. But you don’t! You are always  staring at the clouds and can’t see the things that lie at your feet.  You hardly believe me now, do you, Macumazahn? Well, I will show you.  Have you anything on you that the Star has touched or worn?”    I thought for a moment, and said that I had a lock of her hair in my  pocket-book. He told me to give it him. I did so. Going to the fire, he  lit the lock of hair in the flame, and let it burn to ashes, which he  caught in his left hand. These ashes he mixed up in a paste with the  juice of one of the leaves of the plant I have spoken of.    “Now, Macumazahn, shut your eyes,” he said.    I did so, and he rubbed his paste on to my eyelids. At first it burnt  me, then my head swam strangely. Presently this effect passed off, and  my brain was perfectly clear again, but I could not feel the ground with  my feet. Indaba-zimbi led me to the side of the stream. Beneath us was a  pool of beautifully clear water.    “Look into the pool, Macumazahn,” said Indaba-zimbi, and his voice  sounded hollow and far away in my ears.    I looked. The water grew dark; it cleared, and in it was a picture.  I saw a cave with a fire burning in it. Against the wall of the cave  rested Stella. Her dress was torn almost off her, she looked dreadfully  pale and weary, and her eyelids were red as though with weeping. But she 
  Presently my heart stood still, for I thought I heard a faint answer. I  drew nearer to the place from which the sound seemed to come, and again  called. Yes, there was an answer in my wife’s voice. It seemed to come  from the rock. I went up to it and searched among the creepers, but  still could find no opening.    “Move the stone,” cried Stella’s voice, “the cave is shut with a stone.”    I took a spear and prodded at the cliff whence the sound came. Suddenly  the spear sunk in through a mass of lichen. I swept the lichen aside,  revealing a boulder that had been rolled into the mouth of an opening in  the rock, which it fitted so accurately that, covered as it was by  the overhanging lichen, it might well have escaped the keenest eye. We  dragged the boulder out; it was two men’s work to do it. Beyond was  a narrow, water-worn passage, which I followed with a beating heart.  Presently the passage opened into a small cave, shaped like a pickle  bottle, and coming to a neck at the top end. We passed through and found  ourselves in a second, much larger cave, that I at once recognized as  the one of which Indaba-zimbi had shown me a vision in the water. Light  reached it from above--how I know not--and by it I could see a form  half-sitting, half lying on some skins at the top end of the cave. I  rushed to it. It was Stella! Stella bound with strips of hide, bruised,  torn, but still Stella, and alive.    She saw me, she gave one cry, then, as I caught her in my arms, she  fainted. It was happy indeed that she did not faint before, for had it  not been for the sound of her voice I do not believe we should ever have  found that cunningly hidden cave, unless, indeed, Indaba-zimbi’s magic  (on which be blessings) had come to our assistance.    We bore her to the open air, laid her beneath the shade of a tree, and  cut the bonds loose from her ankles. As we went I glanced at the cave.  
fever, contracted no doubt in the unhealthy atmosphere of that accursed  valley. In time she shook the fever off, but it left her dreadfully  weak, and quite unfit to face the trial before her.    I think she knew that she was going to die; she always spoke of my  future, never of _our_ future. It is impossible for me to tell how sweet  she was; how gentle, how patient and resigned. Nor, indeed, do I wish  to tell it, it is too sad. But this I will say, I believe that if ever  a woman drew near to perfection while yet living on the earth, Stella  Quatermain did so.    The fatal hour drew on. My boy Harry was born, and his mother lived  to kiss and bless him. Then she sank. We did what we could, but we had  little skill, and might not hold her back from death. All through one  weary night I watched her with a breaking heart.    The dawn came, the sun rose in the east. His rays falling on the peak  behind were reflected in glory upon the bosom of the western sky. Stella  awoke from her swoon and saw the light. She whispered to me to open the  door of the hut. I did so, and she fixed her dying eyes on the splendour  of the morning sky. She looked on me and smiled as an angel might  smile. Then with a last effort she lifted her hand, and, pointing to the  radiant heavens, whispered:    “_There, Allan, there!_”    It was done, and I was broken-hearted, and broken-hearted I must wander  to the end. Those who have endured my loss will know my sorrow; it  cannot be written. In such peace and at such an hour may I also die!    Yes, it is a sad story, but wander where we will about the world we can  never go beyond the sound of the passing bell. For me, as for my father  before me, and for the millions who have been and who shall be, there is  but one word of comfort. “The Lord hath given, and the Lord hath taken  away.” Let us, then, bow our heads in hope, and add with a humble heart, 
