  My dear Roosevelt,--    You are, I know, a lover of old Allan Quatermain, one who  understands and appreciates the views of life and the aspirations  that underlie and inform his manifold adventures.    Therefore, since such is your kind wish, in memory of certain  hours wherein both of us found true refreshment and companionship  amidst the terrible anxieties of the World's journey along that  bloodstained road by which alone, so it is decreed, the pure Peak  of Freedom must be scaled, I dedicate to you this tale telling of  the events and experiences of my youth.    Your sincere friend,    H. RIDER HAGGARD.      To COLONEL THEODORE ROOSEVELT,  Sagamore Hill, U.S.A.        CONTENTS:    I. ALLAN QUATERMAIN MEETS ANSCOMBE  II. MR. MARNHAM  III. THE HUNTERS HUNTED  IV. DOCTOR RODD  V. A GAME OF CARDS  VI. MISS HEDA  VII. THE STOEP  VIII. RODD'S LAST CARD  IX. FLIGHT  X. NOMBE  XI. ZIKALI  XII. TRAPPED  XIII. CETEWAYO  XIV. THE VALLEY OF BONES  XV. THE GREAT COUNCIL  XVI. WAR  XVII. KAATJE BRINGS NEWS  XVIII. ISANDHLWANA  XIX. ALLAN AWAKES  XX. HEDA'S TALE  XXI. THE KING VISITS ZIKALI  XXII. THE MADNESS OF NOMBE  XXIII. THE KRAAL JAZI        INTRODUCTION            This book, although it can be read as a separate story, is the  third of the trilogy of which _Marie_ and _Child of Storm_ are  the first two parts.  It narrates, through the mouth of Allan  Quatermain, the consummation of the vengeance of the wizard  Zikali, alias The Opener of Roads, or  "The-Thing-that-should-never-have-been-born," upon the royal Zulu  House of which Senzangacona was the founder and Cetewayo, our  enemy in the war of 1879, the last representative who ruled as a  king.  Although, of course, much is added for the purposes of  romance, the main facts of history have been adhered to with some  faithfulness.    With these the author became acquainted a full generation ago,  Fortune having given him a part in the events that preceded the 
         So much for preliminaries, now for the story.    The eighteen months had gone by, bringing with them to me their  share of adventure, weal and woe, with all of which at present I  have no concern.  Behold me arriving very hot and tired in the  post-cart from Kimberley, whither I had gone to invest what I had  saved out of my Matabeleland contract in a very promising  speculation whereof, today, the promise remains and no more.  I  had been obliged to leave Kimberly in a great hurry, before I  ought indeed, because of the silly bargain which I have just  recorded.  Of course I was sure that I should never see Mr.  Anscombe again, especially as I had heard nothing of him during  all this while, and had no reason to suppose that he was in  Africa.  Still I had taken his #50 and he _might_ come.  Also I  have always prided myself upon keeping an appointment.    The post-cart halted with a jerk in front of the European Hotel,  and I crawled, dusty and tired, from its interior, to find myself  face to face with Anscombe, who was smoking a pipe upon the  stoep!    "Hullo, Quatermain," he said in his pleasant, drawling voice,  "here you are, up to time.  I have been making bets with these  five gentlemen," and he nodded at a group of loungers on the  stoep, "as to whether you would or would not appear, I putting  ten to one on you in drinks.  Therefore you must now consume five  whiskies and sodas, which will save them from consuming fifty and  a subsequent appearance at the Police Court."    I laughed and said I would be their debtor to the extent of one,  which was duly produced.    After it was drunk Anscombe and I had a chat.  He said that he  had been to India, shot, or shot at whatever game he meant to  kill there, visited his relations in England and thence proceeded  to keep his appointment with me in Africa.  At Durban he had  fitted himself out in a regal way with two wagons, full teams, 
  "That is not all," I remarked, keeping my eyes fixed on him.  "What else did he say?"    "He said, Baas, that he was very much afraid of returning to the  Baas Marnham whom the Kaffirs call White-beard, with only a few  stones left."    "Why was he afraid?"    "Because the Baas Whitebeard, he who dwells at Tampel, is, he  says, a very angry man if he thinks himself cheated, and Karl is  afraid lest he should kill him as another was killed, he whose  spook haunts the wood through which those silly people feared to  pass last night."    "Who was killed and who killed him?" I asked.    "Baas, I don't know," replied Footsack, collapsing into sullen  silence in a way that Kaffirs have when suddenly they realize  that they have said too much.  Nor did I press the matter  further, having learned enough.    What had I learned?  This: that Messrs. Marnham & Rodd were  illicit diamond buyers, I.D.B.'s as they are called, who had  cunningly situated themselves at a great distance from the scene  of operations practically beyond the reach of civilized law.  Probably they were engaged also in other nefarious dealings with  Kaffirs, such as supplying them with guns wherewith to make war  upon the Whites.  Sekukuni had been fighting us recently, so that  there would be a very brisk market for rifles.  This, too, would  account for Marnham's apparent knowledge of that Chief's plans.  Possibly, however, he had no knowledge and only made a pretence  of it to keep us out of the country.    Later on I confided the whole story and my suspicions to  Anscombe, who was much interested.    "What picturesque scoundrels!" he exclaimed, "We really ought to  go back to the Temple.  I have always longed to meet some real  live I.D.B.'s."    "It is probable that you have done that already without knowing  it.  For the rest, if you wish to visit that den of iniquity, you  must do so alone."    "Wouldn't whited sepulchre be a better term, especially as it  seems to cover dead men's bones?" he replied in his frivolous 
 which Mr. Marnham listened without comment.    "I expect that the Kaffirs will have looted the wagon and be on  the way home with your oxen by now," he said when I had finished.    "Are you not afraid that they will follow us here?" I asked.    "Oh no, Mr. Quatermain.  We do business with these people, also  they sometimes come to be doctored by Rodd when they are sick, so  this place is sacred ground to them.  They stopped hunting you  when they got to the Yellow-wood swamp where our land begins, did  they not?"    "Yes, but now I want to hunt them.  Can you give me any help?  Those oxen are tired out and footsore, so we might be able to  catch them up."    He shook his head.  "We have very few people here, and by the  time that you could get assistance from the Camp at Barberton, if  the Commandant is able and willing to give you any, which I  rather doubt, they will be far away.  Moreover," he added,  dropping his voice, "let us come to an understanding.  You are  most welcome to any help or hospitality that I can offer, but if  you wish to do more fighting I must ask you to go elsewhere.  As  I have told you, we are peaceful men who trade with these people,  and do not wish to be involved in a quarrel with them, which  might expose us to attack or bring us into trouble with the  British Government which has annexed but not conquered their  country.  Do I make myself clear?"    "Perfectly.  While we are with you we will do nothing, but  afterwards we hold ourselves at liberty to act as we think best."    "Quite so.  Meanwhile I hope that you and Mr. Anscombe will make  yourselves comfortable with us for as long as you like."    In my own mind I came to the conclusion that this would be for  the shortest time possible, but I only said--    "It is most kind of you to take in complete strangers thus.  No, 
"Made a good job of your operation?" I asked cheerfully.    "Pretty fair, thanks," he answered, "although that Kaffir tried  to brain the nurse-man when he was coming out of the anesthetic.  But are you interested in geology?"    "A little," I replied, "that is if there is any chance of making  money out of it, which there ought to be here, as this marble  looks almost as good as that of Carrara.  But flint instruments  are more my line, that is in an ignorant and amateur way, as I  think they are in yours, for I saw some in your room.  Tell me,  what do you think of this.  Is it a scraper?" and I produced a  stone out of my pocket which I had found a week before in the  bush-veld.    At once he forgot his suspicions, of which I could see he arrived  very full indeed.  This curious man, as it happened, was really  fond of flint instruments, of which he knew a great deal.    "Did you find this here?" he asked.    I led him several yards further from the mouth of the cave and  pointed out the exact spot where I said I had picked it up  amongst some quarry debris.  Then followed a most learned  discussion, for it appeared that this was a flint instrument of  the rarest and most valuable type, one that Noah might have used,  or Job might have scraped himself with, and the question was how  the dickens had it come among that quarry debris.  In the end we  left the problem undecided, and having presented the article to  Dr. Rodd, a gift for which he thanked me with real warmth, I  returned to the house filled with the glow that rewards one who  has made a valuable discovery.    Of the following three days I have nothing particular to say,  except that during them I was perhaps more acutely bored than  ever I had been in my life before.  The house was beautiful in  its own fashion; the food was excellent; there was everything I  could want to drink, and Rodd announced that he no longer feared 
 me by my Christian name, "I suppose you haven't heard anything  about those oxen, have you?"    "No, I could scarcely expect to yet, but why do you ask?"    He smiled in his droll fashion and replied, "Because, interesting  as this household is in sundry ways, I think it is about time  that we, or at any rate that I, got out of it."    "Your leg isn't fit to travel yet, Anscombe, although Rodd says  that all the symptoms are very satisfactory."    "Yes, but to tell you the truth I am experiencing other symptoms  quite unknown to that beloved physician and so unfamiliar to  myself that I attribute them to the influences of the locality.  Altitude affects the heart, does it not, and this house stands  high."    "Don't play off your jokes on me," I said sternly.  "What do you  mean?"    "I wonder if you find Miss Heda attractive, Allan, or if you are  too old.  I believe there comes an age when the only beauties  that can move a man are those of architecture, or scenery, or  properly cooked food."    "Hang it all! I am not Methusaleh," I replied; "but if you mean  that you are falling in love with Heda, why the deuce don't you  say so, instead of wasting my time and your own?"    "Because time was given to us to waste.  Properly considered it  is the best use to which it can be put, or at any rate the one  that does least mischief.  Also because I wished to make you say  it for me that I might judge from the effect of your words  whether it is or is not true.  I may add that I fear the former  to be the case."    "Well, if you are in love with the girl you can't expect one so  ancient as myself, who is quite out of touch with such follies,  to teach you how to act."    "No, Allan.  Unfortunately there are occasions when one must  rely upon one's own wisdom, and mine, what there is of it, tells 
shattered, not merely broken.    "Drunk," I said aloud, whereon the servant, who understood me,  spoke for the first time, saying in a frightened voice in Dutch--    "No, Baas, dead, half cold.  I found him so just now."    I bent down and examined Marnham, also felt his face.  Sure  enough, he was dead, for his jaw had fallen; also his flesh was  chill, and from him came a horrible smell of brandy.  I thought  for a moment, then bade the boy fetch Dr. Rodd and say nothing  to any one else, He went, and now for the first time I noticed a  large envelope addressed "Allan Quatermain, Esq." in a somewhat  shaky hand.  This I picked up and slipped into my pocket.    Rodd arrived half dressed.    "What's the matter now?" he growled.    I pointed to Marnham, saying--    "That is a question for you to answer.    "Oh! drunk again, I suppose," he said.  Then he did as I had  done, bent down and examined him.  A few seconds later he stepped  or reeled back, looking as frightened as a man could be, and  exclaiming--    "Dead as a stone, by God! Dead these three hours or more."    "Quite so," I answered, "but what killed him?"    "How should I know?" he asked savagely.  "Do you suspect me of  poisoning him?"    "My mind is open," I replied; "but as you quarrelled so bitterly  last night, others might."    The bolt went home; he saw his danger.    "Probably the old sot died in a fit, or of too much brandy.  How  can one know without a post-mortem?  But that mustn't be made by  me.  I'm off to inform the magistrate and get hold of another  doctor.  Let the body remain as it is until I return."    I reflected quickly.  Ought I to let him go or not?  If he had  any hand in this business, doubtless he intended to escape.  Well, supposing this were so and he did escapee, that would be a 
         The sun sank in a blaze of glory.  Looking back by the light of  its last rays I saw a single native silhouetted against the red  sky.  He was standing on a mound that we had passed a mile or  more behind us, doubtless waiting for his companions whom he had  outrun.  So they had not given up the chase.  What was to be  done?  Once it was completely dark we could not go on.  We should  lose our way; the horses would get into ant-bear holes and break  their legs.  Perhaps we might become bogged in some hollow,  therefore we must wait till the moon rose, which would not be for  a couple of hours.    Meanwhile those accursed Basutos would be following us even in  the dark.  This would hamper them, no doubt, but they would keep  the path, with which they were probably familiar, beneath their  feet, and what is more, the ground being soft with recent rain,  they could feel the wheel spoor with their fingers.  I looked  about me.  Just here another track started off in a nor'-westerly  direction from that which we were following.  Perhaps it ran to  Lydenburg; I do not know.  To our left, not more than a hundred  yards or so away, the higher veld came to an end and sloped in an  easterly direction down to bush-land below.    Should I take the westerly road which ran over a great plain?  No, for then we might be seen for miles and cut off.  Moreover,  even if we escaped the natives, was it desirable we should plunge  into civilization just now and tell all our story, as in that  case we must do.  Rodd's death was quite justified, but it had  happened on Transvaal territory and would require a deal of  explanation.  Fortunately there was no witness of it, except  ourselves.  Yes, there was though--the driver Footsack, if he had  got away, which, being mounted, would seem probable, a man who,  for my part, I would not trust for a moment.  It would be an ugly 
remained for about twenty-four hours.  This was not wonderful,  seeing that for two days and nights practically I had not rested,  during which time I went through much fatigue and many emotions.    When at length I did wake up, the first thing I saw was Anscombe  already dressed, engaged in cleaning my clothes with a brush from  his toilet case.  I remember thinking how smart and incongruous  that dressing-bag, made appropriately enough of crocodile hide,  looked in this Kaffir hut with its silver-topped bottles and its  ivory-handled razors.    "Time to get up, Sir.  Bath ready, Sir," he said in his jolly,  drawling voice, pointing to a calabash full of hot water.  "Hope  you slept as well as I did, Sir."    "You appear to have recovered your spirits," I remarked as I rose  and began to wash myself.    "Yes, Sir, and why not?  Heda is quite well, for I have seen her.  These Swazis are very good people, and as Kaatje understands  their language, bring us all we want.  Our troubles seem to be  done with.  Old Marnham is dead, and doubtless cremated; Rodd is  dead and, let us hope, in heaven; the Basutos have melted away,  the morning is fine and warm and a whole kid is cooking for  breakfast."    "I wish there were two, for I am ravenous," I remarked.    "The horses are getting rested and feeding well, though some of  their legs have filled, and the trap is little the worse, for I  have walked to look at them, or rather hopped, leaning on the  shoulder of a very sniffy Swazi boy.  Do you know, old fellow, I  believe there never were any Basutos; also that the venerable  Marnham and the lurid Rodd had no real existence, that they were  but illusions, a prolonged nightmare--no more.  Here is your  shirt.  I am sorry that I have not had time to wash it, but it  has cooked well in the sun, which, being flannel, is almost as  good."    "At any rate Heda remains," I remarked, cutting his nonsense  short, "and I suppose she is not a nightmare or a delusion." 
 and we went forward across the courtyard, I a little ahead of the  others.  As we drew near Zikali opened his mouth and uttered a  loud and terrifying laugh.  How well I remembered that laugh  which I had first heard at Dingaan's kraal as a boy after the  murder of Retief and the Boers.*    [*--See the book called _Marie,_ by H. Rider Haggard.]    "I begin to think that you are right and that this old gentleman  must be the devil," said Anscombe to Heda, then lapsed into  silence.    As I was determined not to speak first I took the opportunity to  fill my pipe.  Zikali, who was watching me, although all the  while he seemed to be staring at the setting sun, made a sign.  One of the servants dashed away and immediately returned, bearing  a flaming brand which he proffered to me as a pipe-lighter.  Then he  departed again to bring three carved stools of red wood which he  placed for us.  I looked at mine and knew it again by the  carvings.  It was the same on which I had sat when first I met  Zikali.  At length he spoke in his deep, slow voice.    "Many years have gone by, Macumazahn, since you made use of that  stool.  They are cut in notches upon the leg you hold and you may  count them if you will."    I examined the leg.  There were the notches, twenty-two or three  of them.  On the other legs were more notches too numerous to  reckon.    "Do not look at those, Macumazahn, for they have nothing to do  with you.  They tell the years since the first of the House of  Senzangacona sat upon that stool, since Chaka sat upon it, since  Dingaan and others sat upon it, one Mameena among them.  Well,  much has happened since it served you for a rest.  You have  wandered far and seen strange things and lived where others would  have died because it was your lot to live, of all of which we  will talk afterwards.  And now when you are grey you have come 
Macumazahn."    "Indeed, Goza, and is your errand to cut my throat?"    "Not at present, Macumazahn, that is, unless you refuse to do  what the king wishes."    "And what does the king wish, Goza?"    "He wishes, Macumazahn, that you, his friend, should visit him."    "Which is just what I was on my way to do, Goza."  (This was not  true, but it didn't matter, for, if a lie, in the words of the  schoolgirl's definition, is an abomination to the Lord, it is a  very present help in time of trouble.)  "After we have eaten I  and my friends will accompany you to the king's kraal at Ulundi."    "Not so, Macumazahn.  The king said nothing about your friends,  of whom I do not think he has ever heard any more than we have.  Moreover, if your friends are white, you will do well not to  mention them, since the order is that all white people in  Zululand who have not come here by the king's desire, are to be  killed at once, except yourself, Macumazahn."    "Is it so, Goza?  Well, as you will have understood, I am quite  alone here and have no friends.  Only I did not wish to travel so  early."    "Of course we understand that you are quite alone and have no  friends, is it not so, my brothers?"    "Yes, yes, we understand," they exclaimed in chorus, one of them  adding, "and shall so report to the King."    "What kind of blankets do you like; the plain grey ones or the  white ones with the blue stripes?" I asked, desiring to confirm  them in this determination.    "The grey ones are warmer, Macumazahn, and do not show dirt so  much," answered Goza thoughtfully.    "Good, I will remember when I have the chance."    "The promise of Macumazahn is known from of old to be as a tree  that elephants cannot pull down and white ants will not eat,"  said the sententious Goza, thereby intimating his belief that  some time or other they would receive those blankets.  As a 
 Natal (Sir Bartle Frere) threatens me with war because two  evil-doing women were taken on the Natal side of the Tugela and  brought back to Zululand and killed by Mehlokazulu, being the  wives of his father, Sirayo, which was done without my knowledge.  Also two white men were driven away from an island in the Tugela  River by some of my soldiers."    "Is that all, O King?" I asked.    "No.  The Queen's man says I kill my people without trial, which  is a lie told him by the missionaries, and that girls have been  killed also who refused to marry those to whom they were given  and ran away with other men.  Also that wizards are smelt out and  slain, which happens but rarely now; all of this contrary to the  promises I made to Sompseu when he came to recognize me as king  upon my father's death, and some other such small matters."    "What is demanded if you would avoid war, O King?"    "Nothing less than this, Macumazahn: That the Zulu army should be  abolished and the soldiers allowed to marry whom and when they  please, because, says the Queen's man, he fears lest it should be  used to attack the English, as though I who love the English, as  those have done who went before me, desire to lay a finger on  them.  Also that another Queen's man should be sent to dwell here  in my country, to be the eyes and ears of the English Government  and have power with me in the land; yes, and more demands which  would destroy the Zulus as a people and make me, their king, but  a petty kraal-head."    "And what will the King answer?" I asked.    "I know not what to answer.  The fine of two thousand cattle I  will pay for the killing of the women.  If it may be, I wish no  quarrel with the English, though gladly I would have fought the  Dutch had not Sompseu stretched out his arm over their land.  But  how can I disband the army and make an end of the regiments that 
increased, but now and again it was broken by little clouds which  caused strange shadows to appear about the rock.  Some of these  shadows looked as though veiled figures were approaching the  wizard, bending over him and departing again, after giving him  their message or counsel.    "His Spirits visit him," whispered Goza, but I made no answer.    This went on for quite a long time, until the full round of the  moon appeared above the hill indeed, and, for the while, the  clouds had cleared away.  Still Zikali sat silent and I, who was  acquainted with the habits of this people, knew that I was  witnessing a conflict between two they considered to be  respectively a spiritual and an earthly king.  It is my belief  that unless he were first addressed, Zikali would have sat all  night without opening his lips.  Possibly Cetewayo would have  done the same if the impatience of public opinion had allowed  him.  At any was rate it was he who gave way.    "Makosi, master of many Spirits, on behalf of the Council and the  People of the Zulus I, the King, greet you here in the place that  you have chosen," said Cetewayo.    Zikali made no answer.    The silence went on as before, till at length, after a pause and  some whispering, Cetewayo repeated his salutation, adding--    "Has age made you deaf, O Opener of Roads, that you cannot hear  the voice of the King?"    Then at last Zikali answered in his low voice that yet seemed to  fill all the kloof--    "Nay, Child of Senzangacona, age has not made me deaf, but my  spirit in these latter days floats far from my body.  It is like  a bladder filled with air that a child holds by a string, and  before I can speak I must draw it from the heavens to earth  again.  What did you say about the place that I have chosen?  Well, what better place could I choose, seeing that it was here  in this very Vale of Bones that I met the first king of the 
 something else, namely, a woman very like one whom once I had  known.  There she stood, lightly clad enough, her fingers playing  with the blue beads of her necklace, an inscrutable smile upon  her face and her large eyes fixed on nothingness.    Oh! Heaven, I knew her, or rather thought I did at the moment,  for now I am almost sure that it was Nombe dressed, or undressed,  for the part.  That knowledge came with reflection, but then I  could have sworn, being deceived by the uncertain light, that the  long dead Mameena stood before us as she had seemed to stand  before me in the hut of Zikali, radiating a kind of supernatural  life and beauty.    A little wind arose, shaking the dry leaves of the aloes in the  kloof; I thought it whispered--_Hail, Mameena!_  Some of the  older men, too, among them a few who had seen her die, in  trembling voices murmured, "It is Mameena!" whereon Zikali  scowled at them and they grew silent.    As for the figure it stood there patient and unmoved, like one  who has all time at its disposal, playing with the blue beads.  I  heard them tinkle against each other, which proves that it was  human, for how could a wraith cause beads to tinkle, although it  is true that Christmas-story ghosts are said to clank their  chains.  Her eyes roved idly and without interest over the  semi-circle of terrified men before her.  Then by degrees they  fixed themselves upon the tree behind which I was crouching,  whereon Goza sank paralyzed to the ground.  She contemplated this  tree for a while that seemed to me interminable; it reminded me  of a setter pointing game it winded but could not see, for her  whole frame grew intent and alert.  She ceased playing with the  beads and stretched out her slender hand towards me.  Her lips  moved.  She spoke in a sweet, slow voice, saying--    "O Watcher-by-Night, is it thus you greet her to whom you have  given strength to stand once more beneath the moon?  Come hither  and tell me, have you no kiss for one from whom you parted with a 
Let him be well treated on the road as my messenger."    Then Cetewayo rose and stood while all present gave him the royal  salute, after which he walked away down the kloof.  I remained  for a moment, making pretence to examine the blade of the little  assegai that had been thrown by the figure on the rock, which I  had picked from the ground.  This historical piece of iron which  I have no doubt is the same that Chaka always carried, wherewith,  too, he is said to have killed his mother, Nandie, by the way I  still possess, for I slipped it into my pocket and none tried to  take it from me.    Really, however, I was wondering whether I could in any way gain  access to Zikali, a problem that was settled for me by a sharp  request to move on, uttered in a tone which admitted of no  further argument.    Well, I trudged back to my hut in the company of Goza, who was so  overcome by all the wonders he had seen that he could scarcely  speak.  Indeed, when I asked him what he thought of the figure  that had appeared upon the rock, he replied petulantly that it  was not given to him to know whence spirits came or of what stuff  they were made, which showed me that he at any rate believed in  its supernatural origin and that it had appeared to direct the  Zulus to make war.  This was all I wanted to find out, so I said  nothing more, but gave up my mind to thought of my own position  and difficulties.    Here I was, ordered on pain of death to depart from Ulundi at the  dawn.  And yet how could I obey without seeing Zikali and  learning from him what had happened to Anscombe and Heda, or at  any rate without communicating with him?  Once more only did I  break silence, offering to give Goza a gun if he would take a  message from me to the great wizard.  But with a shake of his big  head, he answered that to do so would mean death, and guns were 
 wisdom, a fact which shows that the real essence of Christianity  has not yet permeated human morals.  It just runs over their  surface, no more, and for every eye that is turned towards the  divine Vision, a thousand are fixed night and day upon Mammon's  glittering image.    Now I owned certain wagons and oxen, and just then the demand for  these was keen.  So I hired them out to the military authorities  for service in the war, and incidentally myself with them.  I  drove what I considered a splendid bargain with an officer who  wrote as many letters after his name as a Governor-General, but  was really something quite humble.  At least I thought it  splendid until outside his tent I met a certain transport rider  of my acquaintance whom I had always looked upon as a perfect  fool, who told me that not half an hour before he had got twenty  per cent. more for unsalted oxen and very rickety wagons.  However, it did not matter much in the end as the whole outfit  was lost at Isandhlwana, and owing to the lack of some formality  which I had overlooked, I never recovered more than a tithe of  their value.  I think it was that I neglected to claim within a  certain specified time.    At last my wagons were laden with ammunition and other Government  goods and I trekked over awful roads to Helpmakaar, a place on  the Highlands not far from Rorke's Drift where No. 3 Column was  stationed.  Here we were delayed awhile, I and my wagons having  moved to a ford of the Buffalo, together with many others.  It  was during this time that I ventured to make very urgent  representations to certain highly placed officers, I will not  mention which, as to the necessity of laagering, that is, forming  fortified camps, as soon as Zululand was entered, since from my  intimate knowledge of its people I was sure that they would  attack in force.  These warnings of mine were received with the  most perfect politeness and offers of gin to drink, which all  transport riders were supposed to love, but in effect were 
  [*--See the book called _The Ivory Child._--EDITOR.]    At length I woke up again, feeling much stronger, and saw the  dog, Lost, watching me with its great tender eyes--oh! they talk  of the eyes of women, but are they ever as beautiful as those of  a loving dog?  It lay by my low bed-stead, a rough affair  fashioned of poles and strung with rimpis or strings of raw hide,  and by it, stroking its head, sat the witch-doctoress, Nombe.  I  remember how pleasing she looked, a perfect type of the eternal  feminine with her graceful, rounded shape and her continual,  mysterious smile which suggested so much more than any mortal  woman has to give.    "Good-day to you, Macumazahn," she said in her gentle voice, "you  have gone through much since last we met on the night before Goza  took you away to Ulundi."    Now remembering all, I was filled with indignation against this  little humbug.    "The last time we met, Nombe," I said, "was when you played the  part of a woman who is dead in the Vale of Bones by the king's  kraal."    She regarded me with a kindly commiseration, and answered,  shaking her head--    "You have been very ill, Macumazahn, and your spirit still tricks  you.  I played the part of no woman in any valley by the king's  kraal, nor were my eyes rejoiced with the sight of you there or  elsewhere till they brought you to this place, so changed that I  should scarcely have known you."    "You little liar!" I said rudely.    "Do the white people always name those liars who tell them true  things they cannot understand?" she inquired with a sweet  innocence.  Then without waiting for an answer, she patted my  hand as though I were a fretful child and gave me some soup in a  gourd, saying, "Drink it, it is good.  The lady Heddana made it  herself in the white man's fashion."    I drank the soup, which was very good, and as I handed back the  gourd, answered--    "Kaatje has told me that the lady Heddana is dead.  Can the dead 
 about dawn I went out of the hut to see what was the matter.  There, standing a few yards away surrounded by some of Zikali's  people, I saw Lost and knew at once that it was an English  Airedale, for I have had several of the breed.  It looked very  tired and frightened, and while I was wondering whence on earth  it could have come, I noticed that it had a silver-mounted collar  and remembered Nombe and her talk about you and a dog that  carried silver on it.  From that moment, Allan, I was certain  that you were somewhere near, especially as the beast ran up to  me--it would take no notice of the Kaffirs--and kept looking  towards the mouth of the kloof, as though it wished me to follow  it.  Just then Nombe arrived, and on seeing the dog looked at me  oddly.    "'I have a message for you from my master, Mauriti,' she said to  me through Heda, who by now had arrived upon the scene, having  also been aroused by Lost's barking.  'It is that if you wish to  take a walk with a strange dog you can do so, and bring back  anything you may find.'"    "The end of it was that after we had fed Lost with milk and meat,  I and six of Zikali's men started down the kloof, Lost going  ahead of us and now and again running back and whining.  At the  mouth of the kloof it led us over a hill and down into a  bush-veld valley where the thorns grew very thick.  When we had  gone along the valley for about two miles, one of the Kaffirs saw  a Basuto pony still saddled, and caught it.  The dog went on past  the pony to a tree that had been shattered by lightning, and  there within a few yards of the tree we found you lying  senseless, Allan, or, as I thought at first, dead, and by your  side a Martini rifle of which the stock also seemed to have been  broken by lightning.    "Well, we put you on a shield and carried you here, meeting no 
could see by the look of quick intelligence that flashed from  face to face.    "So!  Mopo the murderer, he who vanished from the land after the  death of my uncle Dingaan, gave you the little red assegai, did  he, Opener of Roads!  And but a few months ago that assegai,  which old Sigananda knew again, thrown by the hand of the  Inkosazana-y-Zulu, drew blood from my body after the white man,  Macumazahn, had severed its shaft with his bullet.  Now tell me,  Opener of Roads, how did it pass from your keeping into that of  the spirit Nomkubulwana?"    At this question I distinctly saw a shiver shake the frame of  Zikali who realized too late the terrible mistake he had made.  Yet as only the great can do, he retrieved and even triumphed  over his error.    "Oho-ho!" he laughed, "who am I that I can tell how such things  happen?  Do you not know, O King, that the Spirits leave what  they will and take what they will, whether it be but a blade of  grass, or the life of a man"--here he looked at Cetewayo--"or  even of a people?  Sometimes they take the shadow and sometimes  the substance, since spirit or matter, all is theirs.  As for the  little assegai, I lost it years ago.  I remember that the last  time I saw it was in the hands of a woman named Mameena to whom I  showed it as a strange and bloody thing.  After her death I found  that it was gone, so doubtless she took it with her to the  Under-world and there gave it to the Queen Nomkubulwana, with  whom you may remember this Mameena returned from that Under-world  yonder in the Bones."    "It may be so," said Cetewayo sullenly, "yet it was no spirit  iron that cut my thigh, but what do I know of the ways of  Spirits?  Wizard, I would speak with you in your hut alone where  no ear can hear us."    "My hut is the King's," answered Zikali, "yet let the King  remember that those Spirits of which he does not know the ways, 
   "I think your chain is broken, O Zikali, no more my master.  I  think that love has cut your chain in two and I fear you never  more.  Keep the spirit you lent to me; it is yours, but the rest  of me is my own, and in the house of my heart another comes to  dwell."    Then once more she stretched out her arms towards Heda and  murmuring, "Sister, forget me not, Sister, who will await you for  a thousand years," she passed away.      It was a good ending to a bad business, and I confess I felt glad  when it was finished.  Only afterwards I regretted very much that  I had not found an opportunity to ask her whether or no she had  masqueraded as Mameena in the Valley of Bones.  Now it is too  late.      We buried poor Nombe decently in her own little hut where she  used to practise her incantations.  Zikali and his people wished  apparently to throw her to the vultures for some secret reason  that had to do with their superstitions.  But Heda, who, now that  Nombe was dead, developed a great affection for her not unmixed  with a certain amount of compunction for which really she had no  cause, withstood him to his face and insisted upon a decent  interment.  So she was laid to earth still plastered with the  white pigment and wrapped in the bloodstained feather robe.  I  may add that on the following morning one of Zikali's servants  informed me solemnly that because of this she had been seen  during the night riding up and down the rocks on a baboon as Zulu  umtagati are supposed to do.  I have small doubt that as soon as  we were gone they dug her up again and threw her to the vultures  and the jackals according to their first intention.    On this day we at length escaped from the Black Kloof, and in our  own cart, for during the night our horses arrived mysteriously  from somewhere, in good condition though rather wild.  I went to  
