and pretended to keep a second-hand furniture shop by the square where  the cheap cabs wait) told the missionaries that she was Kim's mother's  sister; but his mother had been nursemaid in a Colonel's family and had  married Kimball O'Hara, a young colour-sergeant of the Mavericks, an  Irish regiment.  He afterwards took a post on the Sind, Punjab, and  Delhi Railway, and his Regiment went home without him.  The wife died  of cholera in Ferozepore, and O'Hara fell to drink and loafing up and  down the line with the keen-eyed three-year-old baby.  Societies and  chaplains, anxious for the child, tried to catch him, but O'Hara  drifted away, till he came across the woman who took opium and learned  the taste from her, and died as poor whites die in India.  His estate  at death consisted of three papers--one he called his 'ne varietur'  because those words were written below his signature thereon, and  another his 'clearance-certificate'.  The third was Kim's  birth-certificate.  Those things, he was used to say, in his glorious  opium-hours, would yet make little Kimball a man.  On no account was  Kim to part with them, for they belonged to a great piece of  magic--such magic as men practised over yonder behind the Museum, in  the big blue-and-white Jadoo-Gher--the Magic House, as we name the  Masonic Lodge.  It would, he said, all come right some day, and Kim's  horn would be exalted between pillars--monstrous pillars--of beauty and  strength.  The Colonel himself, riding on a horse, at the head of the  finest Regiment in the world, would attend to Kim--little Kim that  should have been better off than his father.  Nine hundred first-class  devils, whose God was a Red Bull on a green field, would attend to Kim,  if they had not forgotten O'Hara--poor O'Hara that was gang-foreman on  the Ferozepore line.  Then he would weep bitterly in the broken rush  chair on the veranda.  So it came about after his death that the woman  sewed parchment, paper, and birth-certificate into a leather  amulet-case which she strung round Kim's neck.    'And some day,' she said, confusedly remembering O'Hara's prophecies,  'there will come for you a great Red Bull on a green field, and the 
which I had lost.  He led me into the Wonder House, and by his talk  emboldened me to speak to the Keeper of the Images, so that I was  cheered and made strong.  And when I was faint with hunger he begged  for me, as would a chela for his teacher.  Suddenly was he sent.  Suddenly has he gone away.  It was in my mind to have taught him the  Law upon the road to Benares.'    Kim stood amazed at this, because he had overheard the talk in the  Museum, and knew that the old man was speaking the truth, which is a  thing a native on the road seldom presents to a stranger.    'But I see now that he was but sent for a purpose.  By this I know that  I shall find a certain River for which I seek.'    'The River of the Arrow?'  said Kim, with a superior smile.    'Is this yet another Sending?'  cried the lama.  'To none have I spoken  of my search, save to the Priest of the Images.  Who art thou?'    'Thy chela,' said Kim simply, sitting on his heels.  'I have never seen  anyone like to thee in all this my life.  I go with thee to Benares.  And, too, I think that so old a man as thou, speaking the truth to  chance-met people at dusk, is in great need of a disciple.'    'But the River--the River of the Arrow?'    'Oh, that I heard when thou wast speaking to the Englishman.  I lay  against the door.'    The lama sighed.  'I thought thou hadst been a guide permitted. Such  things fall sometimes--but I am not worthy.  Thou dost not, then, know  the River?'    'Not I,' Kim laughed uneasily.  'I go to look for--for a bull--a Red.  Bull on a green field who shall help me.'  Boylike, if an acquaintance  had a scheme, Kim was quite ready with one of his own; and, boylike, he  had really thought for as much as twenty minutes at a time of his  father's prophecy. 
'What--what is this?'  the lama repeated.  'He must go to Benares. He  must come with me.  He is my chela.  If there is money to be paid--'    'Oh, be silent,' whispered Kim; 'are we Rajahs to throw away good  silver when the world is so charitable?'    The Amritzar girl stepped out with her bundles, and it was on her that  Kim kept his watchful eye.  Ladies of that persuasion, he knew, were  generous.    'A ticket--a little tikkut to Umballa--O Breaker of Hearts!' She  laughed.  'Hast thou no charity?'    'Does the holy man come from the North?'    'From far and far in the North he comes,' cried Kim.  'From among the  hills.'    'There is snow among the pine-trees in the North--in the hills there is  snow.  My mother was from Kulu.  Get thee a ticket.  Ask him for a  blessing.'    'Ten thousand blessings,' shrilled Kim.  'O Holy One, a woman has given  us in charity so that I can come with thee--a woman with a golden  heart.  I run for the tikkut.'    The girl looked up at the lama, who had mechanically followed Kim to  the platform.  He bowed his head that he might not see her, and  muttered in Tibetan as she passed on with the crowd.    'Light come--light go,' said the cultivator's wife viciously.    'She has acquired merit,' returned the lama.  'Beyond doubt it was a  nun.'    'There be ten thousand such nuns in Amritzar alone.  Return, old man,  or the te-rain may depart without thee,' cried the banker.    'Not only was it sufficient for the ticket, but for a little food  also,' said Kim, leaping to his place.  'Now eat, Holy One.  Look. Day  comes!'    Golden, rose, saffron, and pink, the morning mists smoked away across  the flat green levels.  All the rich Punjab lay out in the splendour of  the keen sun.  The lama flinched a little as the telegraph-posts swung  by.    'Great is the speed of the te-rain,' said the banker, with a 
man's horror of the Serpent.    'Let him live out his life.'  The coiled thing hissed and half opened  its hood.  'May thy release come soon, brother!'  the lama continued  placidly.  'Hast thou knowledge, by chance, of my River?'    'Never have I seen such a man as thou art,' Kim whispered, overwhelmed.  'Do the very snakes understand thy talk?'    'Who knows?'  He passed within a foot of the cobra's poised head. It  flattened itself among the dusty coils.    'Come, thou!'  he called over his shoulder.    'Not I,' said Kim'.  'I go round.'    'Come.  He does no hurt.'    Kim hesitated for a moment.  The lama backed his order by some droned  Chinese quotation which Kim took for a charm.  He obeyed and bounded  across the rivulet, and the snake, indeed, made no sign.    'Never have I seen such a man.'  Kim wiped the sweat from his forehead.  'And now, whither go we?'    'That is for thee to say.  I am old, and a stranger--far from my own  place.  But that the rail-carriage fills my head with noises of  devil-drums I would go in it to Benares now ...  Yet by so going we may  miss the River.  Let us find another river.'    Where the hard-worked soil gives three and even four crops a year  through patches of sugar-cane, tobacco, long white radishes, and  nol-kol, all that day they strolled on, turning aside to every glimpse  of water; rousing village dogs and sleeping villages at noonday; the  lama replying to the volleyed questions with an unswerving simplicity.  They sought a River:  a River of miraculous healing.  Had any one  knowledge of such a stream?    Sometimes men laughed, but more often heard the story out to the end  and offered them a place in the shade, a drink of milk, and a meal.  The women were always kind, and the little children as children are the  world over, alternately shy and venturesome.    Evening found them at rest under the village tree of a mud-walled, 
rail-carriages the Sahibs travelled up and down here in hundreds. Now  there are only country-carts and such like.  Left and right is the  rougher road for the heavy carts--grain and cotton and timber, fodder,  lime and hides.  A man goes in safety here for at every few koss is a  police-station.  The police are thieves and extortioners (I myself  would patrol it with cavalry--young recruits under a strong captain),  but at least they do not suffer any rivals.  All castes and kinds of  men move here.    'Look!  Brahmins and chumars, bankers and tinkers, barbers and bunnias,  pilgrims and potters--all the world going and coming.  It is to me as a  river from which I am withdrawn like a log after a flood.'    And truly the Grand Trunk Road is a wonderful spectacle.  It runs  straight, bearing without crowding India's traffic for fifteen hundred  miles--such a river of life as nowhere else exists in the world.  They  looked at the green-arched, shade-flecked length of it, the white  breadth speckled with slow-pacing folk; and the two-roomed  police-station opposite.    'Who bears arms against the law?'  a constable called out laughingly,  as he caught sight of the soldier's sword.  'Are not the police enough  to destroy evil-doers?'    'It was because of the police I bought it,' was the answer.  'Does all  go well in Hind?'    'Rissaldar Sahib, all goes well.'    'I am like an old tortoise, look you, who puts his head out from the  bank and draws it in again.  Ay, this is the Road of Hindustan. All men  come by this way...'    'Son of a swine, is the soft part of the road meant for thee to scratch  thy back upon?  Father of all the daughters of shame and husband of ten  thousand virtueless ones, thy mother was devoted to a devil, being led  thereto by her mother.  Thy aunts have never had a nose for seven  generations!  Thy sister--What Owl's folly told thee to draw thy carts  across the road?  A broken wheel?  Then take a broken head and put the 
burned like a many-coloured jewel in the same uncertain light.  The  patterns on the gold-worked curtains ran up and down, melting and  reforming as the folds shook and quivered to the night wind; and when  the talk grew more earnest the jewelled forefinger snapped out little  sparks of light between the embroideries.  Behind the cart was a wall  of uncertain darkness speckled with little flames and alive with  half-caught forms and faces and shadows.  The voices of early evening  had settled down to one soothing hum whose deepest note was the steady  chumping of the bullocks above their chopped straw, and whose highest  was the tinkle of a Bengali dancing-girl's sitar.  Most men had eaten  and pulled deep at their gurgling, grunting hookahs, which in full  blast sound like bull-frogs.    At last the lama returned.  A hillman walked behind him with a wadded  cotton-quilt and spread it carefully by the fire.    'She deserves ten thousand grandchildren,' thought Kim.  'None the  less, but for me, those gifts would not have come.'    'A virtuous woman--and a wise one.'  The lama slackened off, joint by  joint, like a slow camel.  'The world is full of charity to those who  follow the Way.'  He flung a fair half of the quilt over Kim.    'And what said she?'  Kim rolled up in his share of it.    'She asked me many questions and propounded many problems--the most of  which were idle tales which she had heard from devil-serving priests  who pretend to follow the Way.  Some I answered, and some I said were  foolish.  Many wear the Robe, but few keep the Way.'    'True.  That is true.'  Kim used the thoughtful, conciliatory tone of  those who wish to draw confidences.    'But by her lights she is most right-minded.  She desires greatly that  we should go with her to Buddh Gaya; her road being ours, as I  understand, for many days' journey to the southward.'    'And?'    'Patience a little.  To this I said that my Search came before all  things.  She had heard many foolish legends, but this great truth of my 
'What is that--"Rishti"?'    'Eye-rishti--that was the Regiment--my father's.'    'Irish--oh, I see.'    'Yess.  That was how my father told me.  My father, he has lived.'    'Has lived where?'    'Has lived.  Of course he is dead--gone-out.'    'Oh!  That's your abrupt way of putting it, is it?'    Bennett interrupted.  'It is possible I have done the boy an injustice.  He is certainly white, though evidently neglected.  I am sure I must  have bruised him.  I do not think spirits--'    'Get him a glass of sherry, then, and let him squat on the cot. Now,  Kim,' continued Father Victor, 'no one is going to hurt you. Drink that  down and tell us about yourself.  The truth, if you've no objection.'    Kim coughed a little as he put down the empty glass, and considered.  This seemed a time for caution and fancy.  Small boys who prowl about  camps are generally turned out after a whipping. But he had received no  stripes; the amulet was evidently working in his favour, and it looked  as though the Umballa horoscope and the few words that he could  remember of his father's maunderings fitted in most miraculously.  Else  why did the fat padre seem so impressed, and why the glass of hot  yellow drink from the lean one?    'My father, he is dead in Lahore city since I was very little.  The  woman, she kept kabarri shop near where the hire-carriages are.' Kim  began with a plunge, not quite sure how far the truth would serve him.    'Your mother?'    'No!'--with a gesture of disgust.  'She went out when I was born. My  father, he got these papers from the Jadoo-Gher what do you call that?'  (Bennett nodded) 'because he was in good-standing.  What do you call  that?'  (again Bennett nodded).  'My father told me that.  He said,  too, and also the Brahmin who made the drawing in the dust at Umballa  two days ago, he said, that I shall find a Red Bull on a green field  and that the Bull shall help me.' 
corner of a bare road leading towards the bazar, and eyed the natives  passing.  Most of them were barrack-servants of the lowest caste.  Kim  hailed a sweeper, who promptly retorted with a piece of unnecessary  insolence, in the natural belief that the European boy could not follow  it.  The low, quick answer undeceived him.  Kim put his fettered soul  into it, thankful for the late chance to abuse somebody in the tongue  he knew best.  'And now, go to the nearest letter-writer in the bazar  and tell him to come here.  I would write a letter.'    'But--but what manner of white man's son art thou to need a bazar  letter-writer?  Is there not a schoolmaster in the barracks?'    'Ay; and Hell is full of the same sort.  Do my order, you--you Od! Thy  mother was married under a basket!  Servant of Lal Beg' (Kim knew the  God of the sweepers), 'run on my business or we will talk again.'    The sweeper shuffled off in haste.  'There is a white boy by the  barracks waiting under a tree who is not a white boy,' he stammered to  the first bazar letter-writer he came across.  'He needs thee.'    'Will he pay?'  said the spruce scribe, gathering up his desk and pens  and sealing-wax all in order.    'I do not know.  He is not like other boys.  Go and see.  It is well  worth.'    Kim danced with impatience when the slim young Kayeth hove in sight.  As soon as his voice could carry he cursed him volubly.    'First I will take my pay,' the letter-writer said.  'Bad words have  made the price higher.  But who art thou, dressed in that fashion, to  speak in this fashion?'    'Aha!  That is in the letter which thou shalt write.  Never was such a  tale.  But I am in no haste.  Another writer will serve me.  Umballa  city is as full of them as is Lahore.'    'Four annas,' said the writer, sitting down and spreading his cloth in  
Nucklao, and--here is something to pay the letter-writer. I shall see  thee again, I think, many times,' and he cantered off down the road.    'Listen to me,' said the Colonel from the veranda, speaking in the  vernacular.  'In three days thou wilt go with me to Lucknow, seeing and  hearing new things all the while.  Therefore sit still for three days  and do not run away.  Thou wilt go to school at Lucknow.'    'Shall I meet my Holy One there?'  Kim whimpered.    'At least Lucknow is nearer to Benares than Umballa.  It may be thou  wilt go under my protection.  Mahbub Ali knows this, and he will be  angry if thou returnest to the Road now.  Remember--much has been told  me which I do not forget.'    'I will wait,' said Kim, 'but the boys will beat me.'    Then the bugles blew for dinner.          Chapter 7      Unto whose use the pregnant suns are poised  With idiot moons and stars retracing stars?  Creep thou betweene--thy coming's all unnoised.  Heaven hath her high, as Earth her baser, wars.  Heir to these tumults, this affright, that fraye  (By Adam's, fathers', own, sin bound alway);  Peer up, draw out thy horoscope and say  Which planet mends thy threadbare fate or mars?    Sir John Christie.      In the afternoon the red-faced schoolmaster told Kim that he had been  'struck off the strength', which conveyed no meaning to him till he was  ordered to go away and play.  Then he ran to the bazar, and found the  young letter-writer to whom he owed a stamp.    'Now I pay,' said Kim royally, 'and now I need another letter to be  written.'    'Mahbub Ali is in Umballa,' said the writer jauntily.  He was, by  virtue of his office, a bureau of general misinformation.    'This is not to Mahbub, but to a priest.  Take thy pen and write 
the Colonel.    'See how wise is the boy.  He would go back to the Road again, as I  said.  Not knowing yet thy trade--'    'I am not at all sure of that,' the Colonel muttered.    'He turns to me to make a peace between you.  Is he not wise?  He says  he will return.  He is but perfecting his knowledge.  Think, Sahib!  He  has been three months at the school.  And he is not mouthed to that  bit.  For my part, I rejoice.  The pony learns the game.'    'Ay, but another time he must not go alone.'    'Why?  He went alone before he came under the Colonel Sahib's  protection.  When he comes to the Great Game he must go alone--alone,  and at peril of his head.  Then, if he spits, or sneezes, or sits down  other than as the people do whom he watches, he may be slain.  Why  hinder him now?  Remember how the Persians say:  The jackal that lives  in the wilds of Mazanderan can only be caught by the hounds of  Mazanderan.'    'True.  It is true, Mahbub Ali.  And if he comes to no harm, I do not  desire anything better.  But it is great insolence on his part.'    'He does not tell me, even, whither he goes,' said Mahbub.  'He is no  fool.  When his time is accomplished he will come to me.  It is time  the healer of pearls took him in hand.  He ripens too quickly--as  Sahibs reckon.'    This prophecy was fulfilled to the letter a month later.  Mahbub had  gone down to Umballa to bring up a fresh consignment of horses, and Kim  met him on the Kalka road at dusk riding alone, begged an alms of him,  was sworn at, and replied in English.  There was nobody within earshot  to hear Mahbub's gasp of amazement.    'Oho!  And where hast thou been?'    'Up and down--down and up.'    'Come under a tree, out of the wet, and tell.' 
camping-ground for spite,' Mahbub confided to Kim as the boy filled his  pipe under a tree, 'I did not know how greatly they were fools, and  this made me wroth.  As thus--,' and he told Kim a tale of an  expression, misused in all innocence, that doubled Kim up with mirth.  'Now I see, however,'--he exhaled smoke slowly--'that it is with them  as with all men--in certain matters they are wise, and in others most  foolish.  Very foolish it is to use the wrong word to a stranger; for  though the heart may be clean of offence, how is the stranger to know  that?  He is more like to search truth with a dagger.'    'True.  True talk,' said Kim solemnly.  'Fools speak of a cat when a  woman is brought to bed, for instance.  I have heard them.'    'Therefore, in one situate as thou art, it particularly behoves thee to  remember this with both kinds of faces.  Among Sahibs, never forgetting  thou art a Sahib; among the folk of Hind, always remembering thou  art--' He paused, with a puzzled smile.    'What am I? Mussalman, Hindu, Jain, or Buddhist?  That is a hard knot.'    'Thou art beyond question an unbeliever, and therefore thou wilt be  damned.  So says my Law--or I think it does.  But thou art also my  Little Friend of all the World, and I love thee.  So says my heart.  This matter of creeds is like horseflesh.  The wise man knows horses  are good--that there is a profit to be made from all; and for  myself--but that I am a good Sunni and hate the men of Tirah--I could  believe the same of all the Faiths.  Now manifestly a Kathiawar mare  taken from the sands of her birthplace and removed to the west of  Bengal founders--nor is even a Balkh stallion (and there are no better  horses than those of Balkh, were they not so heavy in the shoulder) of  any account in the great Northern deserts beside the snow-camels I have  seen.  Therefore I say in my heart the Faiths are like the horses.  Each has merit in its own country.' 
five blue stones.  Four flawed emeralds there are, but one is drilled  in two places, and one is a little carven-'    'Their weights?'  said Lurgan Sahib impassively.    'Three--five--five--and four ruttees as I judge it.  There is one piece  of old greenish pipe amber, and a cut topaz from Europe. There is one  ruby of Burma, of two ruttees, without a flaw, and there is a  balas-ruby, flawed, of two ruttees.  There is a carved ivory from China  representing a rat sucking an egg; and there is last--ah ha!--a ball of  crystal as big as a bean set on a gold leaf.'    He clapped his hands at the close.    'He is thy master,' said Lurgan Sahib, smiling.    'Huh!  He knew the names of the stones,' said Kim, flushing.  'Try  again!  With common things such as he and I both know.'    They heaped the tray again with odds and ends gathered from the shop,  and even the kitchen, and every time the child won, till Kim marvelled.    'Bind my eyes--let me feel once with my fingers, and even then I will  leave thee opened-eyed behind,' he challenged.    Kim stamped with vexation when the lad made his boast good.    'If it were men--or horses,' he said, 'I could do better.  This playing  with tweezers and knives and scissors is too little.'    'Learn first--teach later,' said Lurgan Sahib.  'Is he thy master?'    'Truly.  But how is it done?'    'By doing it many times over till it is done perfectly--for it is worth  doing.'    The Hindu boy, in highest feather, actually patted Kim on the back.    'Do not despair,' he said.  'I myself will teach thee.'    'And I will see that thou art well taught,' said Lurgan Sahib, still  speaking in the vernacular, 'for except my boy here--it was foolish of  him to buy so much white arsenic when, if he had asked, I could have  given it--except my boy here I have not in a long time met with one  better worth teaching.  And there are ten days more ere thou canst 
Creighton--to make anyone do anything he wants.  And that is three  years ago.  I have taught him a good deal since, Colonel Creighton.  I  think you waste him now.'    'Hmm!  Maybe you're right.  But, as you know, there is no Survey work  for him at present.'    'Let him out let him go,' Mahbub interrupted.  'Who expects any colt to  carry heavy weight at first?  Let him run with the caravans--like our  white camel-colts--for luck.  I would take him myself, but--'    'There is a little business where he would be most useful--in the  South,' said Lurgan, with peculiar suavity, dropping his heavy blued  eyelids.    'E.23 has that in hand,' said Creighton quickly.  'He must not go down  there.  Besides, he knows no Turki.'    'Only tell him the shape and the smell of the letters we want and he  will bring them back,' Lurgan insisted.    'No.  That is a man's job,' said Creighton.    It was a wry-necked matter of unauthorized and incendiary  correspondence between a person who claimed to be the ultimate  authority in all matters of the Mohammedan religion throughout the  world, and a younger member of a royal house who had been brought to  book for kidnapping women within British territory.  The Moslem  Archbishop had been emphatic and over-arrogant; the young prince was  merely sulky at the curtailment of his privileges, but there was no  need he should continue a correspondence which might some day  compromise him.  One letter indeed had been procured, but the finder  was later found dead by the roadside in the habit of an Arab trader, as  E.23, taking up the work, duly reported.    These facts, and a few others not to be published, made both Mahbub and  Creighton shake their heads.    'Let him go out with his Red Lama,' said the horse-dealer with visible  effort.  'He is fond of the old man.  He can learn his paces by the  rosary at least.'    'I have had some dealings with the old man--by letter,' said Colonel  Creighton, smiling to himself.  'Whither goes he?' 
'They are all most holy and--most greedy,' said the Jat with  bitterness.  'I have walked the pillars and trodden the temples till my  feet are flayed, and the child is no whit better.  And the mother being  sick too ...  Hush, then, little one ...  We changed his name when the  fever came.  We put him into girl's clothes.  There was nothing we did  not do, except--I said to his mother when she bundled me off to  Benares--she should have come with me--I said Sakhi Sarwar Sultan would  serve us best.  We know His generosity, but these down-country Gods are  strangers.'    The child turned on the cushion of the huge corded arms and looked at  Kim through heavy eyelids.    'And was it all worthless?'  Kim asked, with easy interest.    'All worthless--all worthless,' said the child, lips cracking with  fever.    'The Gods have given him a good mind, at least' said the father  proudly.  'To think he should have listened so cleverly.  Yonder is thy  Temple.  Now I am a poor man--many priests have dealt with me--but my  son is my son, and if a gift to thy master can cure him--I am at my  very wits' end.'    Kim considered for a while, tingling with pride.  Three years ago he  would have made prompt profit on the situation and gone his way without  a thought; but now, the very respect the Jat paid him proved that he  was a man.  Moreover, he had tasted fever once or twice already, and  knew enough to recognize starvation when he saw it.    'Call him forth and I will give him a bond on my best yoke, so that the  child is cured.'    Kim halted at the carved outer door of the temple.  A white-clad Oswal  banker from Ajmir, his sins of usury new wiped out, asked him what he  did.    'I am chela to Teshoo Lama, an Holy One from Bhotiyal--within there. He  bade me come.  I wait.  Tell him.'    'Do not forget the child,' cried the importunate Jat over his shoulder, 
Kim knew enough of native methods of attack not to doubt that the case  would be deadly complete--even to the corpse.  The Mahratta twitched  his fingers with pain from time to time.  The Kamboh in his corner  glared sullenly; the lama was busy over his beads; and Kim, fumbling  doctor-fashion at the man's neck, thought out his plan between  invocations.    'Hast thou a charm to change my shape?  Else I am dead.  Five--ten  minutes alone, if I had not been so pressed, and I might--'    'Is he cured yet, miracle-worker?'  said the Kamboh jealously.  'Thou  hast chanted long enough.'    'Nay.  There is no cure for his hurts, as I see, except he sit for  three days in the habit of a bairagi.'  This is a common penance, often  imposed on a fat trader by his spiritual teacher.    'One priest always goes about to make another priest,' was the retort.  Like most grossly superstitious folk, the Kamboh could not keep his  tongue from deriding his Church.    'Will thy son be a priest, then?  It is time he took more of my  quinine.'    'We Jats are all buffaloes,' said the Kamboh, softening anew.    Kim rubbed a finger-tip of bitterness on the child's trusting little  lips.  'I have asked for nothing,' he said sternly to the father,  'except food.  Dost thou grudge me that?  I go to heal another man.  Have I thy leave--Prince?'    Up flew the man's huge paws in supplication.  'Nay--nay.  Do not mock  me thus.'    'It pleases me to cure this sick one.  Thou shalt acquire merit by  aiding.  What colour ash is there in thy pipe-bowl?  White.  That is  auspicious.  Was there raw turmeric among thy foodstuffs?'    'I--I--'    'Open thy bundle!'    It was the usual collection of small oddments:  bits of cloth, quack  medicines, cheap fairings, a clothful of atta--greyish, rough-ground  native flour--twists of down-country tobacco, tawdry pipe-stems, and a  packet of curry-stuff, all wrapped in a quilt.  Kim turned it over with 
The lama, under cover of the monologue, had faded out into the darkness  towards the room prepared.    'Thou hast angered him, belike,' said Kim.    'Not he.  He is wearied, and I forgot, being a grandmother.  (None but  a grandmother should ever oversee a child.  Mothers are only fit for  bearing.) Tomorrow, when he sees how my daughter's son is grown, he  will write the charm.  Then, too, he can judge of the new hakim's  drugs.'    'Who is the hakim, Maharanee?'    'A wanderer, as thou art, but a most sober Bengali from Dacca--a master  of medicine.  He relieved me of an oppression after meat by means of a  small pill that wrought like a devil unchained.  He travels about now,  vending preparations of great value.  He has even papers, printed in  Angrezi, telling what things he has done for weak-backed men and slack  women.  He has been here four days; but hearing ye were coming (hakims  and priests are snake and tiger the world over) he has, as I take it,  gone to cover.'    While she drew breath after this volley, the ancient servant, sitting  unrebuked on the edge of the torchlight, muttered:  'This house is a  cattle-pound, as it were, for all charlatans and--priests. Let the boy  stop eating mangoes ...  but who can argue with a grandmother?'  He  raised his voice respectfully:  'Sahiba, the hakim sleeps after his  meat.  He is in the quarters behind the dovecote.'    Kim bristled like an expectant terrier.  To outface and down-talk a  Calcutta-taught Bengali, a voluble Dacca drug-vendor, would be a good  game.  It was not seemly that the lama, and incidentally himself,  should be thrown aside for such an one.  He knew those curious bastard  English advertisements at the backs of native newspapers.  St Xavier's  boys sometimes brought them in by stealth to snigger over among their  mates; for the language of the grateful patient recounting his symptoms  is most simple and revealing.  The Oorya, not unanxious to play off one  parasite against the other, slunk away towards the dovecote.  
snows of the horizon.  In the dawns they flared windy-red above stark  blue, as Kedarnath and Badrinath--kings of that wilderness--took the  first sunlight.  All day long they lay like molten silver under the  sun, and at evening put on their jewels again.  At first they breathed  temperately upon the travellers, winds good to meet when one crawled  over some gigantic hog's-back; but in a few days, at a height of nine  or ten thousand feet, those breezes bit; and Kim kindly allowed a  village of hillmen to acquire merit by giving him a rough blanket-coat.  The lama was mildly surprised that anyone should object to the  knife-edged breezes which had cut the years off his shoulders.    'These are but the lower hills, chela.  There is no cold till we come  to the true Hills.'    'Air and water are good, and the people are devout enough, but the food  is very bad,' Kim growled; 'and we walk as though we were mad--or  English.  It freezes at night, too.'    'A little, maybe; but only enough to make old bones rejoice in the sun.  We must not always delight in soft beds and rich food.'    'We might at least keep to the road.'    Kim had all a plainsman's affection for the well-trodden track, not six  feet wide, that snaked among the mountains; but the lama, being  Tibetan, could not refrain from short cuts over spurs and the rims of  gravel-strewn slopes.  As he explained to his limping disciple, a man  bred among mountains can prophesy the course of a mountain-road, and  though low-lying clouds might be a hindrance to a short-cutting  stranger, they made no earthly difference to a thoughtful man.  Thus,  after long hours of what would be reckoned very fair mountaineering in  civilized countries, they would pant over a saddle-back, sidle past a  few landslips, and drop through forest at an angle of forty-five onto  the road again.  Along their track lay the villages of the  hillfolk--mud and earth huts, timbers now and then rudely carved with  an axe--clinging like swallows' nests against the steeps, huddled on  tiny flats half-way down a three-thousand-foot glissade; jammed into a 
Martin blacking-bottle.  The glow of the red charcoal as it went from  hand to hand lit up the narrow, blinking eyes, the high Chinese  cheek-bones, and the bull-throats that melted away into the dark duffle  folds round the shoulders.  They looked like kobolds from some magic  mine--gnomes of the hills in conclave.  And while they talked, the  voices of the snow-waters round them diminished one by one as the  night-frost choked and clogged the runnels.    'How he stood up against us!'  said a Spiti man admiring.  'I remember  an old ibex, out Ladakh-way, that Dupont Sahib missed on a  shoulder-shot, seven seasons back, standing up just like him.  Dupont  Sahib was a good shikarri.'    'Not as good as Yankling Sahib.'  The Ao-chung man took a pull at the  whisky-bottle and passed it over.  'Now hear me--unless any other man  thinks he knows more.'    The challenge was not taken up.    'We go to Shamlegh when the moon rises.  There we will fairly divide  the baggage between us.  I am content with this new little rifle and  all its cartridges.'    'Are the bears only bad on thy holding?  said a mate, sucking at the  pipe.    'No; but musk-pods are worth six rupees apiece now, and thy women can  have the canvas of the tents and some of the cooking-gear.  We will do  all that at Shamlegh before dawn.  Then we all go our ways, remembering  that we have never seen or taken service with these Sahibs, who may,  indeed, say that we have stolen their baggage.'    'That is well for thee, but what will our Rajah say?'    'Who is to tell him?  Those Sahibs, who cannot speak our talk, or the  Babu, who for his own ends gave us money?  Will he lead an army against  us?  What evidence will remain?  That we do not need we shall throw on  Shamlegh-midden, where no man has yet set foot.'    'Who is at Shamlegh this summer?'  The place was only a grazing centre  of three or four huts.' 
myself.  There is no blame to the hakim.  He--following  Desire--foretold that the Hills would make me strong. They strengthened  me to do evil, to forget my Search.  I delighted in life and the lust  of life.  I desired strong slopes to climb.  I cast about to find them.  I measured the strength of my body, which is evil, against the high  Hills, I made a mock of thee when thy breath came short under Jamnotri.  I jested when thou wouldst not face the snow of the pass.'    'But what harm?  I was afraid.  It was just.  I am not a hillman; and I  loved thee for thy new strength.'    'More than once I remember'--he rested his cheek dolefully on his  hand--'I sought thy praise and the hakim's for the mere strength of my  legs.  Thus evil followed evil till the cup was full.  Just is the  Wheel!  All Hind for three years did me all honour.  From the Fountain  of Wisdom in the Wonder House to'--he smiled--'a little child playing  by a big gun--the world prepared my road.  And why?'    'Because we loved thee.  It is only the fever of the blow.  I myself am  still sick and shaken.'    'No!  It was because I was upon the Way--tuned as are si-nen [cymbals]  to the purpose of the Law.  I departed from that ordinance. The tune  was broken:  followed the punishment.  In my own Hills, on the edge of  my own country, in the very place of my evil desire, comes the  buffet--here!'  (He touched his brow.) 'As a novice is beaten when he  misplaces the cups, so am I beaten, who was Abbot of Such-zen.  No  word, look you, but a blow, chela.'    'But the Sahibs did not know thee, Holy One?'    'We were well matched.  Ignorance and Lust met Ignorance and Lust upon  the road, and they begat Anger.  The blow was a sign to me, who am no  better than a strayed yak, that my place is not here.  Who can read the  Cause of an act is halfway to Freedom!  "Back to the path," says the 
still-room--drenches that smelt pestilently and tasted worse.  She  stood over Kim till they went down, and inquired exhaustively after  they had come up.  She laid a taboo upon the forecourt, and enforced it  by means of an armed man.  It is true he was seventy odd, that his  scabbarded sword ceased at the hilt; but he represented the authority  of the Sahiba, and loaded wains, chattering servants, calves, dogs,  hens, and the like, fetched a wide compass by those parts.  Best of  all, when the body was cleared, she cut out from the mass of poor  relations that crowded the back of the buildings--house-hold dogs, we  name them--a cousin's widow, skilled in what Europeans, who know  nothing about it, call massage.  And the two of them, laying him east  and west, that the mysterious earth-currents which thrill the clay of  our bodies might help and not hinder, took him to pieces all one long  afternoon--bone by bone, muscle by muscle, ligament by ligament, and  lastly, nerve by nerve.  Kneaded to irresponsible pulp, half hypnotized  by the perpetual flick and readjustment of the uneasy chudders that  veiled their eyes, Kim slid ten thousand miles into slumber--thirty-six  hours of it--sleep that soaked like rain after drought.    Then she fed him, and the house spun to her clamour.  She caused fowls  to be slain; she sent for vegetables, and the sober, slow-thinking  gardener, nigh as old as she, sweated for it; she took spices, and  milk, and onion, with little fish from the brooks--anon limes for  sherbets, fat quails from the pits, then chicken-livers upon a skewer,  with sliced ginger between.    'I have seen something of this world,' she said over the crowded trays,  'and there are but two sorts of women in it--those who take the  strength out of a man and those who put it back.  Once I was that one,  and now I am this.  Nay--do not play the priestling with me. Mine was  but a jest.  If it does not hold good now, it will when thou takest the  road again.  Cousin,'--this to the poor relation, never wearied of  extolling her patroness's charity--'he is getting a bloom on the skin 
