        CATRIONA—Part I—THE LORD ADVOCATE      CHAPTER I—A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK      The 25th day of August, 1751, about two in the afternoon, I, David  Balfour, came forth of the British Linen Company, a porter attending me  with a bag of money, and some of the chief of these merchants bowing me  from their doors.  Two days before, and even so late as yestermorning, I  was like a beggar-man by the wayside, clad in rags, brought down to my  last shillings, my companion a condemned traitor, a price set on my own  head for a crime with the news of which the country rang.  To-day I was  served heir to my position in life, a landed laird, a bank porter by me  carrying my gold, recommendations in my pocket, and (in the words of the  saying) the ball directly at my foot.    There were two circumstances that served me as ballast to so much sail.  The first was the very difficult and deadly business I had still to  handle; the second, the place that I was in.  The tall, black city, and  the numbers and movement and noise of so many folk, made a new world for  me, after the moorland braes, the sea-sands and the still country-sides  that I had frequented up to then.  The throng of the citizens in  particular abashed me.  Rankeillor’s son was short and small in the  girth; his clothes scarce held on me; and it was plain I was ill  qualified to strut in the front of a bank-porter.  It was plain, if I did  so, I should but set folk laughing, and (what was worse in my case) set  them asking questions.  So that I behooved to come by some clothes of my  own, and in the meanwhile to walk by the porter’s side, and put my hand  on his arm as though we were a pair of friends.    At a merchant’s in the Luckenbooths I had myself fitted out: none too  fine, for I had no idea to appear like a beggar on horseback; but comely  and responsible, so that servants should respect me.  Thence to an 
train of very doubtful acts and bring me among very undesirable persons  this many a day to come.  And then you tell me you’re going straight out  of my office to make your peace with the Advocate!  Alan’s button here or  Alan’s button there, the four quarters of Alan wouldnae bribe me further  in.”    “I would take it with a little more temper,” said I, “and perhaps we can  avoid what you object to.  I can see no way for it but to give myself up,  but perhaps you can see another; and if you could, I could never deny but  what I would be rather relieved.  For I think my traffic with his  lordship is little likely to agree with my health.  There’s just the one  thing clear, that I have to give my evidence; for I hope it’ll save  Alan’s character (what’s left of it), and James’s neck, which is the more  immediate.”    He was silent for a breathing-space, and then, “My man,” said he, “you’ll  never be allowed to give such evidence.”    “We’ll have to see about that,” said I; “I’m stiff-necked when I like.”    “Ye muckle ass!” cried Stewart, “it’s James they want; James has got to  hang—Alan, too, if they could catch him—but James whatever!  Go near the  Advocate with any such business, and you’ll see! he’ll find a way to  muzzle, ye.”    “I think better of the Advocate than that,” said I.    “The Advocate be dammed!” cries he.  “It’s the Campbells, man!  You’ll  have the whole clanjamfry of them on your back; and so will the Advocate  too, poor body!  It’s extraordinar ye cannot see where ye stand!  If  there’s no fair way to stop your gab, there’s a foul one gaping.  They  can put ye in the dock, do ye no see that?” he cried, and stabbed me with  one finger in the leg.    “Ay,” said I, “I was told that same no further back than this morning by  another lawyer.”    “And who was he?” asked Stewart, “He spoke sense at least.”    I told I must be excused from naming him, for he was a decent stout old 
“I should, perhaps, begin by telling you, my lord, that I am here at your  own pressing invitation,” said I.    “You have the advantage of me somewhere,” said he, “for I profess I think  I never heard of you before this evening.”    “Right, my lord; the name is, indeed, new to you,” said I.  “And yet you  have been for some time extremely wishful to make my acquaintance, and  have declared the same in public.”    “I wish you would afford me a clue,” says he.  “I am no Daniel.”    “It will perhaps serve for such,” said I, “that if I was in a jesting  humour—which is far from the case—I believe I might lay a claim on your  lordship for two hundred pounds.”    “In what sense?” he inquired.    “In the sense of rewards offered for my person,” said I.    He thrust away his glass once and for all, and sat straight up in the  chair where he had been previously lolling.  “What am I to understand?”  said he.    “_A tall strong lad of about eighteen_,” I quoted, “_speaks like a  Lowlander and has no beard_.”    “I recognise those words,” said he, “which, if you have come here with  any ill-judged intention of amusing yourself, are like to prove extremely  prejudicial to your safety.”    “My purpose in this,” I replied, “is just entirely as serious as life and  death, and you have understood me perfectly.  I am the boy who was  speaking with Glenure when he was shot.”    “I can only suppose (seeing you here) that you claim to be innocent,”  said he.    “The inference is clear,” I said.  “I am a very loyal subject to King  George, but if I had anything to reproach myself with, I would have had  more discretion than to walk into your den.”    “I am glad of that,” said he.  “This horrid crime, Mr. Balfour, is of a  dye which cannot permit any clemency.  Blood has been barbarously shed.  It has been shed in direct opposition to his Majesty and our whole frame 
Then she picked it out upon the keyboard, and (to my surprise) instantly  enriched the same with well-sounding chords, and sang, as she played,  with a very droll expression and broad accent—    “Haenae I got just the lilt of it?  Isnae this the tune that ye whustled?”    “You see,” she says, “I can do the poetry too, only it won’t rhyme.  And  then again:    “I am Miss Grant, sib to the Advocate:  You, I believe, are Dauvit Balfour.”    I told her how much astonished I was by her genius.    “And what do you call the name of it?” she asked.    “I do not know the real name,” said I.  “I just call it _Alan’s air_.”    She looked at me directly in the face.  “I shall call it _David’s air_,”  said she; “though if it’s the least like what your namesake of Israel  played to Saul I would never wonder that the king got little good by it,  for it’s but melancholy music.  Your other name I do not like; so if you  was ever wishing to hear your tune again you are to ask for it by mine.”    This was said with a significance that gave my heart a jog.  “Why that,  Miss Grant?” I asked.    “Why,” says she, “if ever you should come to get hanged, I will set your  last dying speech and confession to that tune and sing it.”    This put it beyond a doubt that she was partly informed of my story and  peril.  How, or just how much, it was more difficult to guess.  It was  plain she knew there was something of danger in the name of Alan, and  thus warned me to leave it out of reference; and plain she knew that I  stood under some criminal suspicion.  I judged besides that the harshness  of her last speech (which besides she had followed up immediately with a  very noisy piece of music) was to put an end to the present conversation.  
nae grenadiers.  But that can never be.  To your last day you’ll ken no  more of women-folk than what I do of sow-gelding.”    I had never been used with such expressions from a lady’s tongue, the  only two ladies I had known, Mrs. Campbell and my mother, being most  devout and most particular women; and I suppose my amazement must have  been depicted in my countenance, for Mrs. Ogilvy burst forth suddenly in  a fit of laughter.    “Keep me!” she cried, struggling with her mirth, “you have the finest  timber face—and you to marry the daughter of a Hieland cateran!  Davie,  my dear, I think we’ll have to make a match of it—if it was just to see  the weans.  And now,” she went on, “there’s no manner of service in your  daidling here, for the young woman is from home, and it’s my fear that  the old woman is no suitable companion for your father’s son.  Forbye  that I have nobody but myself to look after my reputation, and have been  long enough alone with a sedooctive youth.  And come back another day for  your saxpence!” she cried after me as I left.    My skirmish with this disconcerting lady gave my thoughts a boldness they  had otherwise wanted.  For two days the image of Catriona had mixed in  all my meditations; she made their background, so that I scarce enjoyed  my own company without a glint of her in a corner of my mind.  But now  she came immediately near; I seemed to touch her, whom I had never  touched but the once; I let myself flow out to her in a happy weakness,  and looking all about, and before and behind, saw the world like an  undesirable desert, where men go as soldiers on a march, following their  duty with what constancy they have, and Catriona alone there to offer me  some pleasure of my days.  I wondered at myself that I could dwell on  such considerations in that time of my peril and disgrace; and when I  remembered my youth I was ashamed.  I had my studies to complete: I had  to be called into some useful business; I had yet to take my part of 
Sheriff of Perth; and as they were met in consultation on the very  business of the Appin murder, they were a little disturbed at my  appearance, but decided to receive me.    “Well, well, Mr. Balfour, and what brings you here again? and who is this  you bring with you?” says Prestongrange.    As for Fraser, he looked before him on the table.    “He is here to bear a little testimony in my favour, my lord, which I  think it very needful you should hear,” said I, and turned to Duncansby.    “I have only to say this,” said the lieutenant, “that I stood up this day  with Palfour in the Hunter’s Pog, which I am now fery sorry for, and he  behaved himself as pretty as a shentlemans could ask it.  And I have  creat respects for Palfour,” he added.    “I thank you for your honest expressions,” said I.    Whereupon Duncansby made his bow to the company, and left the chamber, as  we had agreed upon before.    “What have I to do with this?” says Prestongrange.    “I will tell your lordship in two words,” said I.  “I have brought this  gentleman, a King’s officer, to do me so much justice.  Now I think my  character is covered, and until a certain date, which your lordship can  very well supply, it will be quite in vain to despatch against me any  more officers.  I will not consent to fight my way through the garrison  of the castle.”    The veins swelled on Prestongrange’s brow, and he regarded me with fury.    “I think the devil uncoupled this dog of a lad between my legs!” he  cried; and then, turning fiercely on his neighbour, “This is some of your  work, Simon,” he said.  “I spy your hand in the business, and, let me  tell you, I resent it.  It is disloyal, when we are agreed upon one  expedient, to follow another in the dark.  You are disloyal to me.  What!  you let me send this lad to the place with my very daughters!  And  because I let drop a word to you..... Fy, sir, keep your dishonours to 
“It is beyond my judging,” I replied.  “It will be long, it may be  never.”    “It may be so,” said she.  “And you are sorry?”    I bowed my head, looking upon her.    “So am I, at all events,” said she.  “I have seen you but a small time,  but I put you very high.  You are true, you are brave; in time I think  you will be more of a man yet.  I will be proud to hear of that.  If you  should speed worse, if it will come to fall as we are afraid—O well!  think you have the one friend.  Long after you are dead and me an old  wife, I will be telling the bairns about David Balfour, and my tears  running.  I will be telling how we parted, and what I said to you, and  did to you.  _God go with you and guide you_, _prays your little friend_:  so I said—I will be telling them—and here is what I did.”    She took up my hand and kissed it.  This so surprised my spirits that I  cried out like one hurt.  The colour came strong in her face, and she  looked at me and nodded.    “O yes, Mr. David,” said she, “that is what I think of you.  The head  goes with the lips.”    I could read in her face high spirit, and a chivalry like a brave  child’s; not anything besides.  She kissed my hand, as she had kissed  Prince Charlie’s, with a higher passion than the common kind of clay has  any sense of.  Nothing before had taught me how deep I was her lover, nor  how far I had yet to climb to make her think of me in such a character.  Yet I could tell myself I had advanced some way, and that her heart had  beat and her blood flowed at thoughts of me.    After that honour she had done me I could offer no more trivial civility.  It was even hard for me to speak; a certain lifting in her voice had  knocked directly at the door of my own tears. 
  “So ye were frich’ened of Sim Fraser?” he asked once.    “In troth was I!” cried I.    “So would I have been, Davie,” said he.  “And that is indeed a driedful  man.  But it is only proper to give the deil his due: and I can tell you  he is a most respectable person on the field of war.”    “Is he so brave?” I asked.    “Brave!” said he.  “He is as brave as my steel sword.”    The story of my duel set him beside himself.    “To think of that!” he cried.  “I showed ye the trick in Corrynakiegh  too.  And three times—three times disarmed!  It’s a disgrace upon my  character that learned ye!  Here, stand up, out with your airn; ye shall  walk no step beyond this place upon the road till ye can do yoursel’ and  me mair credit.”    “Alan,” said I, “this is midsummer madness.  Here is no time for fencing  lessons.”    “I cannae well say no to that,” he admitted.  “But three times, man!  And  you standing there like a straw bogle and rinning to fetch your ain sword  like a doggie with a pocket-napkin!  David, this man Duncansby must be  something altogether by-ordinar!  He maun be extraordinar skilly.  If I  had the time, I would gang straight back and try a turn at him mysel’.  The man must be a provost.”    “You silly fellow,” said I, “you forget it was just me.”    “Na,” said he, “but three times!”    “When ye ken yourself that I am fair incompetent,” I cried.    “Well, I never heard tell the equal of it,” said he.    “I promise you the one thing, Alan,” said I.  “The next time that we  forgather, I’ll be better learned.  You shall not continue to bear the  disgrace of a friend that cannot strike.”    “Ay, the next time!” says he.  “And when will that be, I would like to  ken?”    “Well, Alan, I have had some thoughts of that, too,” said I; “and my plan 
seaward behind the isles and by North Berwick.    In the course of two hours or so, more and more ragged Highlandmen kept  collecting.  Neil among the first, until the party must have numbered  near a score.  With each new arrival there was a fresh bout of talk, that  sounded like complaints and explanations; but I observed one thing, none  of those who came late had any share in the division of my spoils.  The  last discussion was very violent and eager, so that once I thought they  would have quarrelled; on the heels of which their company parted, the  bulk of them returning westward in a troop, and only three, Neil and two  others, remaining sentries on the prisoner.    “I could name one who would be very ill pleased with your day’s work,  Neil Duncanson,” said I, when the rest had moved away.    He assured me in answer I should be tenderly used, for he knew he was  “acquent wi’ the leddy.”    This was all our talk, nor did any other son of man appear upon that  portion of the coast until the sun had gone down among the Highland  mountains, and the gloaming was beginning to grow dark.  At which hour I  was aware of a long, lean, bony-like Lothian man of a very swarthy  countenance, that came towards us among the bents on a farm horse.    “Lads,” cried he, “has ye a paper like this?” and held up one in his  hand.  Neil produced a second, which the newcomer studied through a pair  of horn spectacles, and saying all was right and we were the folk he was  seeking, immediately dismounted.  I was then set in his place, my feet  tied under the horse’s belly, and we set forth under the guidance of the  Lowlander.  His path must have been very well chosen, for we met but one  pair—a pair of lovers—the whole way, and these, perhaps taking us to be  free-traders, fled on our approach.  We were at one time close at the  foot of Berwick Law on the south side; at another, as we passed over some  open hills, I spied the lights of a clachan and the old tower of a church 
He had jimp said the word, when Tod Lapraik cam to himsel’.    “Is this you, Tam?” says he.  “Haith, man!  I’m blythe to see ye.  I  whiles fa’ into a bit dwam like this,” he says; “its frae the stamach.”    Weel, they began to crack about the Bass and which of them twa was to get  the warding o’t, and little by little cam to very ill words, and twined  in anger.  I mind weel that as my faither and me gaed hame again, he cam  ower and ower the same expression, how little he likit Tod Lapraik and  his dwams.    “Dwam!” says he.  “I think folk hae brunt for dwams like yon.”    Aweel, my faither got the Bass and Tod had to go wantin’.  It was  remembered sinsyne what way he had ta’en the thing.  “Tam,” says he, “ye  hae gotten the better o’ me aince mair, and I hope,” says he, “ye’ll find  at least a’ that ye expeckit at the Bass.”  Which have since been thought  remarkable expressions.  At last the time came for Tam Dale to take young  solans.  This was a business he was weel used wi’, he had been a  craigsman frae a laddie, and trustit nane but himsel’.  So there was he  hingin’ by a line an’ speldering on the craig face, whaur its hieest and  steighest.  Fower tenty lads were on the tap, hauldin’ the line and  mindin’ for his signals.  But whaur Tam hung there was naething but the  craig, and the sea belaw, and the solans skirlin and flying.  It was a  braw spring morn, and Tam whustled as he claught in the young geese.  Mony’s the time I’ve heard him tell of this experience, and aye the swat  ran upon the man.    It chanced, ye see, that Tam keeked up, and he was awaur of a muckle  solan, and the solan pyking at the line.  He thocht this by-ordinar and  outside the creature’s habits.  He minded that ropes was unco saft  things, and the solan’s neb and the Bass Rock unco hard, and that twa  hunner feet were raither mair than he would care to fa’. 
amongst my friends and enemies unremarked.    The first that I singled out was Prestongrange.  He sat well forward,  like an eager horseman in the saddle, his lips moving with relish, his  eyes glued on the minister; the doctrine was clearly to his mind.  Charles Stewart, on the other hand, was half asleep, and looked harassed  and pale.  As for Simon Fraser, he appeared like a blot, and almost a  scandal, in the midst of that attentive congregation, digging his hands  in his pockets, shifting his legs, clearing his throat, and rolling up  his bald eyebrows and shooting out his eyes to right and left, now with a  yawn, now with a secret smile.  At times, too, he would take the Bible in  front of him, run it through, seem to read a bit, run it through again,  and stop and yawn prodigiously: the whole as if for exercise.    In the course of this restlessness his eye alighted on myself.  He sat a  second stupefied, then tore a half-leaf out of the Bible, scrawled upon  it with a pencil, and passed it with a whispered word to his next  neighbour.  The note came to Prestongrange, who gave me but the one look;  thence it voyaged to the hands of Mr. Erskine; thence again to Argyle,  where he sat between the other two lords of session, and his Grace turned  and fixed me with an arrogant eye.  The last of those interested in my  presence was Charlie Stewart, and he too began to pencil and hand about  dispatches, none of which I was able to trace to their destination in the  crowd.    But the passage of these notes had aroused notice; all who were in the  secret (or supposed themselves to be so) were whispering information—the  rest questions; and the minister himself seemed quite discountenanced by  the flutter in the church and sudden stir and whispering.  His voice  changed, he plainly faltered, nor did he again recover the easy  conviction and full tones of his delivery.  It would be a puzzle to him  till his dying day, why a sermon that had gone with triumph through four  parts, should thus miscarry in the fifth. 
That I would sup ava’, an’ satiate my maw,  With the bluid of ony clan of my aversion.”    James was as fairly murdered as though the Duke had got a fowling-piece  and stalked him.  So much of course I knew: but others knew not so much,  and were more affected by the items of scandal that came to light in the  progress of the cause.  One of the chief was certainly this sally of the  justice’s.  It was run hard by another of a juryman, who had struck into  the midst of Coulston’s speech for the defence with a “Pray, sir, cut it  short, we are quite weary,” which seemed the very excess of impudence and  simplicity.  But some of my new lawyer friends were still more staggered  with an innovation that had disgraced and even vitiated the proceedings.  One witness was never called.  His name, indeed, was printed, where it  may still be seen on the fourth page of the list: “James Drummond,  _alias_ Macgregor, _alias_ James More, late tenant in Inveronachile”; and  his precognition had been taken, as the manner is, in writing.  He had  remembered or invented (God help him) matter which was lead in James  Stewart’s shoes, and I saw was like to prove wings to his own.  This  testimony it was highly desirable to bring to the notice of the jury,  without exposing the man himself to the perils of cross-examination; and  the way it was brought about was a matter of surprise to all.  For the  paper was handed round (like a curiosity) in court; passed through the  jury-box, where it did its work; and disappeared again (as though by  accident) before it reached the counsel for the prisoner.  This was  counted a most insidious device; and that the name of James More should  be mingled up with it filled me with shame for Catriona and concern for  myself.    The following day, Prestongrange and I, with a considerable company, set  out for Glasgow, where (to my impatience) we continued to linger some  time in a mixture of pleasure and affairs.  I lodged with my lord, with 
ladies, Mr. Balfour.”    “But, mistress,” said I, “there are surely other things besides mere  beauty.”    “By which I am to understand that I am no better than I should be,  perhaps?” she asked.    “By which you will please understand that I am like the cock in the  midden in the fable book,” said I.  “I see the braw jewel—and I like fine  to see it too—but I have more need of the pickle corn.”    “Bravissimo!” she cried.  “There is a word well said at last, and I will  reward you for it with my story.  That same night of your desertion I  came late from a friend’s house—where I was excessively admired, whatever  you may think of it—and what should I hear but that a lass in a tartan  screen desired to speak with me?  She had been there an hour or better,  said the servant-lass, and she grat in to herself as she sat waiting.  I  went to her direct; she rose as I came in, and I knew her at a look.  ‘_Grey Eyes_!’ says I to myself, but was more wise than to let on.  _You  will be Miss Grant at last_? she says, rising and looking at me hard and  pitiful.  _Ay_, _it was true he said_, _you are bonny at all  events_.—_The way God made me_, _my dear_, I said, _but I would be gey  and obliged if you could tell me what brought you here at such a time of  the night_.—_Lady_, she said, _we are kinsfolk_, _we are both come of the  blood of the sons of Alpin_.—_My dear_, I replied, _I think no more of  Alpin or his sons than what I do of a kalestock_.  _You have a better  argument in these tears upon your bonny face_.  And at that I was so  weak-minded as to kiss her, which is what you would like to do dearly,  and I wager will never find the courage of.  I say it was weak-minded of  me, for I knew no more of her than the outside; but it was the wisest  stroke I could have hit upon.  She is a very staunch, brave nature, but I 
‘No’; God never made the lass that could resist the temptation.  It’s  supposed by divines to be the curse of Eve: because she did not say it  when the devil offered her the apple, her daughters can say nothing  else.”    “Since I am so soon to lose my bonny professor,” I began.    “This is gallant, indeed,” says she curtseying.    “I would put the one question,” I went on.  “May I ask a lass to marry to  me?”    “You think you could not marry her without!” she asked.  “Or else get her  to offer?”    “You see you cannot be serious,” said I.    “I shall be very serious in one thing, David,” said she: “I shall always  be your friend.”    As I got to my horse the next morning, the four ladies were all at that  same window whence we had once looked down on Catriona, and all cried  farewell and waved their pocket napkins as I rode away.  One out of the  four I knew was truly sorry; and at the thought of that, and how I had  come to the door three months ago for the first time, sorrow and  gratitude made a confusion in my mind.          PART II—FATHER AND DAUGHTER      CHAPTER XXI—THE VOYAGE INTO HOLLAND      The ship lay at a single anchor, well outside the pier of Leith, so that  all we passengers must come to it by the means of skiffs.  This was very  little troublesome, for the reason that the day was a flat calm, very  frosty and cloudy, and with a low shifting fog upon the water.  The body  of the vessel was thus quite hid as I drew near, but the tall spars of  her stood high and bright in a sunshine like the flickering of a fire.  She proved to be a very roomy, commodious merchant, but somewhat blunt in  the bows, and loaden extraordinary deep with salt, salted salmon, and  fine white linen stockings for the Dutch.  Upon my coming on board, the  captain welcomed me—one Sang (out of Lesmahago, I believe), a very 
  From the boat the business appeared yet more precarious than from the  ship, she stood so high over us, swung down so swift, and menaced us so  perpetually with her plunging and passaging upon the anchor cable.  I  began to think I had made a fool’s bargain, that it was merely impossible  Catriona should be got on board to me, and that I stood to be set ashore  at Helvoet all by myself and with no hope of any reward but the pleasure  of embracing James More, if I should want to.  But this was to reckon  without the lass’s courage.  She had seen me leap with very little  appearance (however much reality) of hesitation; to be sure, she was not  to be beat by her discarded friend.  Up she stood on the bulwarks and  held by a stay, the wind blowing in her petticoats, which made the  enterprise more dangerous, and gave us rather more of a view of her  stockings than would be thought genteel in cities.  There was no minute  lost, and scarce time given for any to interfere if they had wished the  same.  I stood up on the other side and spread my arms; the ship swung  down on us, the patroon humoured his boat nearer in than was perhaps  wholly safe, and Catriona leaped into the air.  I was so happy as to  catch her, and the fishers readily supporting us, escaped a fall.  She  held to me a moment very tight, breathing quick and deep; thence (she  still clinging to me with both hands) we were passed aft to our places by  the steersman; and Captain Sang and all the crew and passengers cheering  and crying farewell, the boat was put about for shore.    As soon as Catriona came a little to herself she unhanded me suddenly,  but said no word.  No more did I; and indeed the whistling of the wind  and the breaching of the sprays made it no time for speech; and our crew  not only toiled excessively but made extremely little way, so that the  _Rose_ had got her anchor and was off again before we had approached the  
  “Well, and here I am,” said she.  “So that’s soon settled.”    I know I was in duty bounden to have spoke more plain.  I know this was a  great blot on my character, for which I was lucky that I did not pay more  dear.  But I minded how easy her delicacy had been startled with a word  of kissing her in Barbara’s letter; now that she depended on me, how was  I to be more bold?  Besides, the truth is, I could see no other feasible  method to dispose of her.  And I daresay inclination pulled me very  strong.    A little beyond the Hague she fell very lame and made the rest of the  distance heavily enough.  Twice she must rest by the wayside, which she  did with pretty apologies, calling herself a shame to the Highlands and  the race she came of, and nothing but a hindrance to myself.  It was her  excuse, she said, that she was not much used with walking shod.  I would  have had her strip off her shoes and stockings and go barefoot.  But she  pointed out to me that the women of that country, even in the landward  roads, appeared to be all shod.    “I must not be disgracing my brother,” said she, and was very merry with  it all, although her face told tales of her.    There is a garden in that city we were bound to, sanded below with clean  sand, the trees meeting overhead, some of them trimmed, some preached,  and the whole place beautified with alleys and arbours.  Here I left  Catriona, and went forward by myself to find my correspondent.  There I  drew on my credit, and asked to be recommended to some decent, retired  lodging.  My baggage being not yet arrived, I told him I supposed I  should require his caution with the people of the house; and explained  that, my sister being come for a while to keep house with me, I should be  wanting two chambers.  This was all very well; but the trouble was that  Mr. Balfour in his letter of recommendation had condescended on a great 
harbour a young lady.  At the same time came in on my mind the  recollection of the clothes that I had bought for her; and I thought this  contrast of poverty and prodigality bore an ill appearance.    He looked all about the chamber for a seat, and finding nothing else to  his purpose except my bed, took a place upon the side of it; where, after  I had closed the door, I could not very well avoid joining him.  For  however this extraordinary interview might end, it must pass if possible  without waking Catriona; and the one thing needful was that we should sit  close and talk low.  But I can scarce picture what a pair we made; he in  his great coat which the coldness of my chamber made extremely suitable;  I shivering in my shirt and breeks; he with very much the air of a judge;  and I (whatever I looked) with very much the feelings of a man who has  heard the last trumpet.    “Well?” says he.    And “Well,” I began, but found myself unable to go further.    “You tell me she is here?” said he again, but now with a spice of  impatience that seemed to brace me up.    “She is in this house,” said I, “and I knew the circumstance would be  called unusual.  But you are to consider how very unusual the whole  business was from the beginning.  Here is a young lady landed on the  coast of Europe with two shillings and a penny halfpenny.  She is  directed to yon man Sprott in Helvoet.  I hear you call him your agent.  All I can say is he could do nothing but damn and swear at the mere  mention of your name, and I must fee him out of my own pocket even to  receive the custody of her effects.  You speak of unusual circumstances,  Mr. Drummond, if that be the name you prefer.  Here was a circumstance,  if you like, to which it was barbarity to have exposed her.”    “But this is what I cannot understand the least,” said James.  “My  daughter was placed into the charge of some responsible persons, whose 
accession to your estates.”    “Nor can I say that either,” I replied, with the same heat.  “It is a  good estate; what matters that to a lone man that has enough already?  I  had a good revenue before in my frugality; and but for the man’s  death—which gratifies me, shame to me that must confess it!—I see not how  anyone is to be bettered by this change.”    “Come, come,” said he, “you are more affected than you let on, or you  would never make yourself out so lonely.  Here are three letters; that  means three that wish you well; and I could name two more, here in this  very chamber.  I have known you not so very long, but Catriona, when we  are alone, is never done with the singing of your praises.”    She looked up at him, a little wild at that; and he slid off at once into  another matter, the extent of my estate, which (during the most of the  dinner time) he continued to dwell upon with interest.  But it was to no  purpose he dissembled; he had touched the matter with too gross a hand:  and I knew what to expect.  Dinner was scarce ate when he plainly  discovered his designs.  He reminded Catriona of an errand, and bid her  attend to it.  “I do not see you should be one beyond the hour,” he  added, “and friend David will be good enough to bear me company till you  return.”  She made haste to obey him without words.  I do not know if she  understood, I believe not; but I was completely satisfied, and sat  strengthening my mind for what should follow.    The door had scarce closed behind her departure, when the man leaned back  in his chair and addressed me with a good affectation of easiness.  Only  the one thing betrayed him, and that was his face; which suddenly shone  all over with fine points of sweat.    “I am rather glad to have a word alone with you,” says he, “because in  our first interview there were some expressions you misapprehended and I  have long meant to set you right upon.  My daughter stands beyond doubt. 
stockings, was not to be endured; and if I were to recover any constancy  of mind, I saw I must be rid of them ere the morning.  It was my first  thought to have made a fire and burned them; but my disposition has  always been opposed to wastery, for one thing; and for another, to have  burned these things that she had worn so close upon her body seemed in  the nature of a cruelty.  There was a corner cupboard in that chamber;  there I determined to bestow them.  The which I did and made it a long  business, folding them with very little skill indeed but the more care;  and sometimes dropping them with my tears.  All the heart was gone out of  me, I was weary as though I had run miles, and sore like one beaten;  when, as I was folding a kerchief that she wore often at her neck, I  observed there was a corner neatly cut from it.  It was a kerchief of a  very pretty hue, on which I had frequently remarked; and once that she  had it on, I remembered telling her (by way of a banter) that she wore my  colours.  There came a glow of hope and like a tide of sweetness in my  bosom; and the next moment I was plunged back in a fresh despair.  For  there was the corner crumpled in a knot and cast down by itself in  another part of the floor.    But when I argued with myself, I grew more hopeful.  She had cut that  corner off in some childish freak that was manifestly tender; that she  had cast it away again was little to be wondered at; and I was inclined  to dwell more upon the first than upon the second, and to be more pleased  that she had ever conceived the idea of that keepsake, than concerned  because she had flung it from her in an hour of natural resentment.        CHAPTER XXIX—WE MEET IN DUNKIRK      Altogether, then, I was scare so miserable the next days but what I had  many hopeful and happy snatches; threw myself with a good deal of 
it and see.”    I took it, and looked at it, and shook my head.    “No,” said I, “it goes against me, I cannot open a man’s letter.”    “Not to save your friend?” she cried.    “I cannae tell,” said I.  “I think not.  If I was only sure!”    “And you have but to break the seal!” said she.    “I know it,” said I, “but the thing goes against me.”    “Give it here,” said she, “and I will open it myself.”    “Nor you neither,” said I.  “You least of all.  It concerns your father,  and his honour, dear, which we are both misdoubting.  No question but the  place is dangerous-like, and the English ship being here, and your father  having word from it, and yon officer that stayed ashore.  He would not be  alone either; there must be more along with him; I daresay we are spied  upon this minute.  Ay, no doubt, the letter should be opened; but  somehow, not by you nor me.”    I was about thus far with it, and my spirit very much overcome with a  sense of danger and hidden enemies, when I spied Alan, come back again  from following James and walking by himself among the sand-hills.  He was  in his soldier’s coat, of course, and mighty fine; but I could not avoid  to shudder when I thought how little that jacket would avail him, if he  were once caught and flung in a skiff, and carried on board of the  _Seahorse_, a deserter, a rebel, and now a condemned murderer.    “There,” said I, “there is the man that has the best right to open it: or  not, as he thinks fit.”    With which I called upon his name, and we both stood up to be a mark for  him.    “If it is so—if it be more disgrace—will you can bear it?” she asked,  looking upon me with a burning eye.    “I was asked something of the same question when I had seen you but the  once,” said I.  “What do you think I answered?  That if I liked you as I 
