the sled toiled a second man.  On the sled, in the box, lay a third man

whose toil was over,--a man whom the Wild had conquered and beaten down

until he would never move nor struggle again.  It is not the way of the

Wild to like movement.  Life is an offence to it, for life is movement;

and the Wild aims always to destroy movement.  It freezes the water to

prevent it running to the sea; it drives the sap out of the trees till

they are frozen to their mighty hearts; and most ferociously and terribly

of all does the Wild harry and crush into submission man--man who is the

most restless of life, ever in revolt against the dictum that all

movement must in the end come to the cessation of movement.



But at front and rear, unawed and indomitable, toiled the two men who

were not yet dead.  Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned

leather.  Eyelashes and cheeks and lips were so coated with the crystals

from their frozen breath that their faces were not discernible.  This

gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world

at the funeral of some ghost.  But under it all they were men,

penetrating the land of desolation and mockery and silence, puny

adventurers bent on colossal adventure, pitting themselves against the

might of a world as remote and alien and pulseless as the abysses of

space.



They travelled on without speech, saving their breath for the work of

their bodies.  On every side was the silence, pressing upon them with a

tangible presence.  It affected their minds as the many atmospheres of

deep water affect the body of the diver.  It crushed them with the weight

of unending vastness and unalterable decree.  It crushed them into the

remotest recesses of their own minds, pressing out of them, like juices

from the grape, all the false ardours and exaltations and undue

self-values of the human soul, until they perceived themselves finite and

small, specks and motes, moving with weak cunning and little wisdom

amidst the play and inter-play of the great blind elements and forces.




"An' he was no fool dog neither," Henry added.



And so was recorded the second epitaph in two days.



A gloomy breakfast was eaten, and the four remaining dogs were harnessed

to the sled.  The day was a repetition of the days that had gone before.

The men toiled without speech across the face of the frozen world.  The

silence was unbroken save by the cries of their pursuers, that, unseen,

hung upon their rear.  With the coming of night in the mid-afternoon, the

cries sounded closer as the pursuers drew in according to their custom;

and the dogs grew excited and frightened, and were guilty of panics that

tangled the traces and further depressed the two men.



"There, that'll fix you fool critters," Bill said with satisfaction that

night, standing erect at completion of his task.



Henry left the cooking to come and see.  Not only had his partner tied

the dogs up, but he had tied them, after the Indian fashion, with sticks.

About the neck of each dog he had fastened a leather thong.  To this, and

so close to the neck that the dog could not get his teeth to it, he had

tied a stout stick four or five feet in length.  The other end of the

stick, in turn, was made fast to a stake in the ground by means of a

leather thong.  The dog was unable to gnaw through the leather at his own

end of the stick.  The stick prevented him from getting at the leather

that fastened the other end.



Henry nodded his head approvingly.



"It's the only contraption that'll ever hold One Ear," he said.  "He can

gnaw through leather as clean as a knife an' jes' about half as quick.

They all'll be here in the mornin' hunkydory."



"You jes' bet they will," Bill affirmed.  "If one of em' turns up

missin', I'll go without my coffee."



"They jes' know we ain't loaded to kill," Henry remarked at bed-time,

indicating the gleaming circle that hemmed them in.  "If we could put a

waiting for him.  As he neared her, he became suddenly cautious.  He

slowed down to an alert and mincing walk and then stopped.  He regarded

her carefully and dubiously, yet desirefully.  She seemed to smile at

him, showing her teeth in an ingratiating rather than a menacing way.  She

moved toward him a few steps, playfully, and then halted.  One Ear drew

near to her, still alert and cautious, his tail and ears in the air, his

head held high.



He tried to sniff noses with her, but she retreated playfully and coyly.

Every advance on his part was accompanied by a corresponding retreat on

her part.  Step by step she was luring him away from the security of his

human companionship.  Once, as though a warning had in vague ways flitted

through his intelligence, he turned his head and looked back at the

overturned sled, at his team-mates, and at the two men who were calling

to him.



But whatever idea was forming in his mind, was dissipated by the

she-wolf, who advanced upon him, sniffed noses with him for a fleeting

instant, and then resumed her coy retreat before his renewed advances.



In the meantime, Bill had bethought himself of the rifle.  But it was

jammed beneath the overturned sled, and by the time Henry had helped him

to right the load, One Ear and the she-wolf were too close together and

the distance too great to risk a shot.



Too late One Ear learned his mistake.  Before they saw the cause, the two

men saw him turn and start to run back toward them.  Then, approaching at

right angles to the trail and cutting off his retreat they saw a dozen

wolves, lean and grey, bounding across the snow.  On the instant, the she-

wolf's coyness and playfulness disappeared.  With a snarl she sprang upon

One Ear.  He thrust her off with his shoulder, and, his retreat cut off

and still intent on regaining the sled, he altered his course in an

attempt to circle around to it.  More wolves were appearing every moment

and joining in the chase.  The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and




It was the she-wolf who had first caught the sound of men's voices and

the whining of the sled-dogs; and it was the she-wolf who was first to

spring away from the cornered man in his circle of dying flame.  The pack

had been loath to forego the kill it had hunted down, and it lingered for

several minutes, making sure of the sounds, and then it, too, sprang away

on the trail made by the she-wolf.



Running at the forefront of the pack was a large grey wolf--one of its

several leaders.  It was he who directed the pack's course on the heels

of the she-wolf.  It was he who snarled warningly at the younger members

of the pack or slashed at them with his fangs when they ambitiously tried

to pass him.  And it was he who increased the pace when he sighted the

she-wolf, now trotting slowly across the snow.



She dropped in alongside by him, as though it were her appointed

position, and took the pace of the pack.  He did not snarl at her, nor

show his teeth, when any leap of hers chanced to put her in advance of

him.  On the contrary, he seemed kindly disposed toward her--too kindly

to suit her, for he was prone to run near to her, and when he ran too

near it was she who snarled and showed her teeth.  Nor was she above

slashing his shoulder sharply on occasion.  At such times he betrayed no

anger.  He merely sprang to the side and ran stiffly ahead for several

awkward leaps, in carriage and conduct resembling an abashed country

swain.



This was his one trouble in the running of the pack; but she had other

troubles.  On her other side ran a gaunt old wolf, grizzled and marked

with the scars of many battles.  He ran always on her right side.  The

fact that he had but one eye, and that the left eye, might account for

this.  He, also, was addicted to crowding her, to veering toward her till

his scarred muzzle touched her body, or shoulder, or neck.  As with the

was compelled to crouch, then the walls widened and rose higher in a

little round chamber nearly six feet in diameter.  The roof barely

cleared her head.  It was dry and cosey.  She inspected it with

painstaking care, while One Eye, who had returned, stood in the entrance

and patiently watched her.  She dropped her head, with her nose to the

ground and directed toward a point near to her closely bunched feet, and

around this point she circled several times; then, with a tired sigh that

was almost a grunt, she curled her body in, relaxed her legs, and dropped

down, her head toward the entrance.  One Eye, with pointed, interested

ears, laughed at her, and beyond, outlined against the white light, she

could see the brush of his tail waving good-naturedly.  Her own ears,

with a snuggling movement, laid their sharp points backward and down

against the head for a moment, while her mouth opened and her tongue

lolled peaceably out, and in this way she expressed that she was pleased

and satisfied.



One Eye was hungry.  Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his

sleep was fitful.  He kept awaking and cocking his ears at the bright

world without, where the April sun was blazing across the snow.  When he

dozed, upon his ears would steal the faint whispers of hidden trickles of

running water, and he would rouse and listen intently.  The sun had come

back, and all the awakening Northland world was calling to him.  Life was

stirring.  The feel of spring was in the air, the feel of growing life

under the snow, of sap ascending in the trees, of buds bursting the

shackles of the frost.



He cast anxious glances at his mate, but she showed no desire to get up.

He looked outside, and half a dozen snow-birds fluttered across his field

of vision.  He started to get up, then looked back to his mate again, and

settled down and dozed.  A shrill and minute singing stole upon his

hearing.  Once, and twice, he sleepily brushed his nose with his paw.

Then he woke up.  There, buzzing in the air at the tip of his nose, was a




Like most creatures of the Wild, he early experienced famine.  There came

a time when not only did the meat-supply cease, but the milk no longer

came from his mother's breast.  At first, the cubs whimpered and cried,

but for the most part they slept.  It was not long before they were

reduced to a coma of hunger.  There were no more spats and squabbles, no

more tiny rages nor attempts at growling; while the adventures toward the

far white wall ceased altogether.  The cubs slept, while the life that

was in them flickered and died down.



One Eye was desperate.  He ranged far and wide, and slept but little in

the lair that had now become cheerless and miserable.  The she-wolf, too,

left her litter and went out in search of meat.  In the first days after

the birth of the cubs, One Eye had journeyed several times back to the

Indian camp and robbed the rabbit snares; but, with the melting of the

snow and the opening of the streams, the Indian camp had moved away, and

that source of supply was closed to him.



When the grey cub came back to life and again took interest in the far

white wall, he found that the population of his world had been reduced.

Only one sister remained to him.  The rest were gone.  As he grew

stronger, he found himself compelled to play alone, for the sister no

longer lifted her head nor moved about.  His little body rounded out with

the meat he now ate; but the food had come too late for her.  She slept

continuously, a tiny skeleton flung round with skin in which the flame

flickered lower and lower and at last went out.



Then there came a time when the grey cub no longer saw his father

appearing and disappearing in the wall nor lying down asleep in the

entrance.  This had happened at the end of a second and less severe

famine.  The she-wolf knew why One Eye never came back, but there was no

way by which she could tell what she had seen to the grey cub.  Hunting

had undergone, but his little brain was equally tired.  In all the days

he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.  Furthermore,

he was sleepy.  So he started out to look for the cave and his mother,

feeling at the same time an overwhelming rush of loneliness and

helplessness.



He was sprawling along between some bushes, when he heard a sharp

intimidating cry.  There was a flash of yellow before his eyes.  He saw a

weasel leaping swiftly away from him.  It was a small live thing, and he

had no fear.  Then, before him, at his feet, he saw an extremely small

live thing, only several inches long, a young weasel, that, like himself,

had disobediently gone out adventuring.  It tried to retreat before him.

He turned it over with his paw.  It made a queer, grating noise.  The

next moment the flash of yellow reappeared before his eyes.  He heard

again the intimidating cry, and at the same instant received a sharp blow

on the side of the neck and felt the sharp teeth of the mother-weasel cut

into his flesh.



While he yelped and ki-yi'd and scrambled backward, he saw the mother-

weasel leap upon her young one and disappear with it into the

neighbouring thicket.  The cut of her teeth in his neck still hurt, but

his feelings were hurt more grievously, and he sat down and weakly

whimpered.  This mother-weasel was so small and so savage.  He was yet to

learn that for size and weight the weasel was the most ferocious,

vindictive, and terrible of all the killers of the Wild.  But a portion

of this knowledge was quickly to be his.



He was still whimpering when the mother-weasel reappeared.  She did not

rush him, now that her young one was safe.  She approached more

cautiously, and the cub had full opportunity to observe her lean,

snakelike body, and her head, erect, eager, and snake-like itself.  Her

sharp, menacing cry sent the hair bristling along his back, and he

snarled warningly at her.  She came closer and closer.  There was a leap,




"So it would seem, Three Eagles," Grey Beaver answered, laying his hand

on the cub; "and this be the sign of it."



The cub snarled a little at the touch of the hand, and the hand flew back

to administer a clout.  Whereupon the cub covered its fangs, and sank

down submissively, while the hand, returning, rubbed behind his ears, and

up and down his back.



"This be the sign of it," Grey Beaver went on.  "It is plain that his

mother is Kiche.  But his father was a wolf.  Wherefore is there in him

little dog and much wolf.  His fangs be white, and White Fang shall be

his name.  I have spoken.  He is my dog.  For was not Kiche my brother's

dog?  And is not my brother dead?"



The cub, who had thus received a name in the world, lay and watched.  For

a time the man-animals continued to make their mouth-noises.  Then Grey

Beaver took a knife from a sheath that hung around his neck, and went

into the thicket and cut a stick.  White Fang watched him.  He notched

the stick at each end and in the notches fastened strings of raw-hide.

One string he tied around the throat of Kiche.  Then he led her to a

small pine, around which he tied the other string.



White Fang followed and lay down beside her.  Salmon Tongue's hand

reached out to him and rolled him over on his back.  Kiche looked on

anxiously.  White Fang felt fear mounting in him again.  He could not

quite suppress a snarl, but he made no offer to snap.  The hand, with

fingers crooked and spread apart, rubbed his stomach in a playful way and

rolled him from side to side.  It was ridiculous and ungainly, lying

there on his back with legs sprawling in the air.  Besides, it was a

position of such utter helplessness that White Fang's whole nature

revolted against it.  He could do nothing to defend himself.  If this man-

animal intended harm, White Fang knew that he could not escape it.  How

victim, forgot caution and locality.  When he remembered locality, it was

too late.  Dashing at top speed around a tepee, he ran full tilt into

Kiche lying at the end of her stick.  He gave one yelp of consternation,

and then her punishing jaws closed upon him.  She was tied, but he could

not get away from her easily.  She rolled him off his legs so that he

could not run, while she repeatedly ripped and slashed him with her

fangs.



When at last he succeeded in rolling clear of her, he crawled to his

feet, badly dishevelled, hurt both in body and in spirit.  His hair was

standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.  He stood

where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long,

heart-broken puppy wail.  But even this he was not allowed to complete.

In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into

Lip-lip's hind leg.  There was no fight left in Lip-lip, and he ran away

shamelessly, his victim hot on his heels and worrying him all the way

back to his own tepee.  Here the squaws came to his aid, and White Fang,

transformed into a raging demon, was finally driven off only by a

fusillade of stones.



Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running

away was past, released Kiche.  White Fang was delighted with his

mother's freedom.  He accompanied her joyfully about the camp; and, so

long as he remained close by her side, Lip-lip kept a respectful

distance.  White Fang even bristled up to him and walked stiff-legged,

but Lip-lip ignored the challenge.  He was no fool himself, and whatever

vengeance he desired to wreak, he could wait until he caught White Fang

alone.



Later on that day, Kiche and White Fang strayed into the edge of the

woods next to the camp.  He had led his mother there, step by step, and

now when she stopped, he tried to inveigle her farther.  The stream, the

lair, and the quiet woods were calling to him, and he wanted her to come.


it.  Upon his inward sight was impressed a succession of memory-pictures.

He saw the camp again, the tepees, and the blaze of the fires.  He heard

the shrill voices of the women, the gruff basses of the men, and the

snarling of the dogs.  He was hungry, and he remembered pieces of meat

and fish that had been thrown him.  Here was no meat, nothing but a

threatening and inedible silence.



His bondage had softened him.  Irresponsibility had weakened him.  He had

forgotten how to shift for himself.  The night yawned about him.  His

senses, accustomed to the hum and bustle of the camp, used to the

continuous impact of sights and sounds, were now left idle.  There was

nothing to do, nothing to see nor hear.  They strained to catch some

interruption of the silence and immobility of nature.  They were appalled

by inaction and by the feel of something terrible impending.



He gave a great start of fright.  A colossal and formless something was

rushing across the field of his vision.  It was a tree-shadow flung by

the moon, from whose face the clouds had been brushed away.  Reassured,

he whimpered softly; then he suppressed the whimper for fear that it

might attract the attention of the lurking dangers.



A tree, contracting in the cool of the night, made a loud noise.  It was

directly above him.  He yelped in his fright.  A panic seized him, and he

ran madly toward the village.  He knew an overpowering desire for the

protection and companionship of man.  In his nostrils was the smell of

the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.

He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no

shadows nor darknesses.  But no village greeted his eyes.  He had

forgotten.  The village had gone away.



His wild flight ceased abruptly.  There was no place to which to flee.  He

slunk forlornly through the deserted camp, smelling the rubbish-heaps and

the discarded rags and tags of the gods.  He would have been glad for the

maltreated.  It was no reasoned impulse that made White Fang do what he

then did.  A mad rush of anger sent him leaping in amongst the

combatants.  Five minutes later the landscape was covered with fleeing

boys, many of whom dripped blood upon the snow in token that White Fang's

teeth had not been idle.  When Mit-sah told the story in camp, Grey

Beaver ordered meat to be given to White Fang.  He ordered much meat to

be given, and White Fang, gorged and sleepy by the fire, knew that the

law had received its verification.



It was in line with these experiences that White Fang came to learn the

law of property and the duty of the defence of property.  From the

protection of his god's body to the protection of his god's possessions

was a step, and this step he made.  What was his god's was to be defended

against all the world--even to the extent of biting other gods.  Not only

was such an act sacrilegious in its nature, but it was fraught with

peril.  The gods were all-powerful, and a dog was no match against them;

yet White Fang learned to face them, fiercely belligerent and unafraid.

Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's

property alone.



One thing, in this connection, White Fang quickly learnt, and that was

that a thieving god was usually a cowardly god and prone to run away at

the sounding of the alarm.  Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed

between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.  He

came to know that it was not fear of him that drove the thief away, but

fear of Grey Beaver.  White Fang did not give the alarm by barking.  He

never barked.  His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to

sink his teeth in if he could.  Because he was morose and solitary,

having nothing to do with the other dogs, he was unusually fitted to

guard his master's property; and in this he was encouraged and trained by

Grey Beaver.  One result of this was to make White Fang more ferocious




There was no defence for him.  If he turned upon them, Mit-sah would

throw the stinging lash of the whip into his face.  Only remained to him

to run away.  He could not encounter that howling horde with his tail and

hind-quarters.  These were scarcely fit weapons with which to meet the

many merciless fangs.  So run away he did, violating his own nature and

pride with every leap he made, and leaping all day long.



One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that

nature recoil upon itself.  Such a recoil is like that of a hair, made to

grow out from the body, turning unnaturally upon the direction of its

growth and growing into the body--a rankling, festering thing of hurt.

And so with White Fang.  Every urge of his being impelled him to spring

upon the pack that cried at his heels, but it was the will of the gods

that this should not be; and behind the will, to enforce it, was the whip

of cariboo-gut with its biting thirty-foot lash.  So White Fang could

only eat his heart in bitterness and develop a hatred and malice

commensurate with the ferocity and indomitability of his nature.



If ever a creature was the enemy of its kind, White Fang was that

creature.  He asked no quarter, gave none.  He was continually marred and

scarred by the teeth of the pack, and as continually he left his own

marks upon the pack.  Unlike most leaders, who, when camp was made and

the dogs were unhitched, huddled near to the gods for protection, White

Fang disdained such protection.  He walked boldly about the camp,

inflicting punishment in the night for what he had suffered in the day.

In the time before he was made leader of the team, the pack had learned

to get out of his way.  But now it was different.  Excited by the day-

long pursuit of him, swayed subconsciously by the insistent iteration on

their brains of the sight of him fleeing away, mastered by the feeling of

mastery enjoyed all day, the dogs could not bring themselves to give way

his hair, sparse and irregular of growth, muddy-yellow and dirty-yellow,

rising on his head and sprouting out of his face in unexpected tufts and

bunches, in appearance like clumped and wind-blown grain.



In short, Beauty Smith was a monstrosity, and the blame of it lay

elsewhere.  He was not responsible.  The clay of him had been so moulded

in the making.  He did the cooking for the other men in the fort, the

dish-washing and the drudgery.  They did not despise him.  Rather did

they tolerate him in a broad human way, as one tolerates any creature

evilly treated in the making.  Also, they feared him.  His cowardly rages

made them dread a shot in the back or poison in their coffee.  But

somebody had to do the cooking, and whatever else his shortcomings,

Beauty Smith could cook.



This was the man that looked at White Fang, delighted in his ferocious

prowess, and desired to possess him.  He made overtures to White Fang

from the first.  White Fang began by ignoring him.  Later on, when the

overtures became more insistent, White Fang bristled and bared his teeth

and backed away.  He did not like the man.  The feel of him was bad.  He

sensed the evil in him, and feared the extended hand and the attempts at

soft-spoken speech.  Because of all this, he hated the man.



With the simpler creatures, good and bad are things simply understood.

The good stands for all things that bring easement and satisfaction and

surcease from pain.  Therefore, the good is liked.  The bad stands for

all things that are fraught with discomfort, menace, and hurt, and is

hated accordingly.  White Fang's feel of Beauty Smith was bad.  From the

man's distorted body and twisted mind, in occult ways, like mists rising

from malarial marshes, came emanations of the unhealth within.  Not by

reasoning, not by the five senses alone, but by other and remoter and

uncharted senses, came the feeling to White Fang that the man was ominous

with evil, pregnant with hurtfulness, and therefore a thing bad, and


Then there was his lightning quickness.  It gave him a tremendous

advantage over his antagonists.  No matter what their fighting

experience, they had never encountered a dog that moved so swiftly as he.

Also to be reckoned with, was the immediateness of his attack.  The

average dog was accustomed to the preliminaries of snarling and bristling

and growling, and the average dog was knocked off his feet and finished

before he had begun to fight or recovered from his surprise.  So often

did this happen, that it became the custom to hold White Fang until the

other dog went through its preliminaries, was good and ready, and even

made the first attack.



But greatest of all the advantages in White Fang's favour, was his

experience.  He knew more about fighting than did any of the dogs that

faced him.  He had fought more fights, knew how to meet more tricks and

methods, and had more tricks himself, while his own method was scarcely

to be improved upon.



As the time went by, he had fewer and fewer fights.  Men despaired of

matching him with an equal, and Beauty Smith was compelled to pit wolves

against him.  These were trapped by the Indians for the purpose, and a

fight between White Fang and a wolf was always sure to draw a crowd.

Once, a full-grown female lynx was secured, and this time White Fang

fought for his life.  Her quickness matched his; her ferocity equalled

his; while he fought with his fangs alone, and she fought with her sharp-

clawed feet as well.



But after the lynx, all fighting ceased for White Fang.  There were no

more animals with which to fight--at least, there was none considered

worthy of fighting with him.  So he remained on exhibition until spring,

when one Tim Keenan, a faro-dealer, arrived in the land.  With him came

the first bull-dog that had ever entered the Klondike.  That this dog and

White Fang should come together was inevitable, and for a week the

anticipated fight was the mainspring of conversation in certain quarters

of the town.




"Stand by to receive your dog," was Scott's peremptory order to

Cherokee's owner.



The faro-dealer stooped down obediently and got a firm hold on Cherokee.



"Now!" Scott warned, giving the final pry.



The dogs were drawn apart, the bull-dog struggling vigorously.



"Take him away," Scott commanded, and Tim Keenan dragged Cherokee back

into the crowd.



White Fang made several ineffectual efforts to get up.  Once he gained

his feet, but his legs were too weak to sustain him, and he slowly wilted

and sank back into the snow.  His eyes were half closed, and the surface

of them was glassy.  His jaws were apart, and through them the tongue

protruded, draggled and limp.  To all appearances he looked like a dog

that had been strangled to death.  Matt examined him.



"Just about all in," he announced; "but he's breathin' all right."



Beauty Smith had regained his feet and come over to look at White Fang.



"Matt, how much is a good sled-dog worth?" Scott asked.



The dog-musher, still on his knees and stooped over White Fang,

calculated for a moment.



"Three hundred dollars," he answered.



"And how much for one that's all chewed up like this one?" Scott asked,

nudging White Fang with his foot.



"Half of that," was the dog-musher's judgment.  Scott turned upon Beauty

Smith.



"Did you hear, Mr. Beast?  I'm going to take your dog from you, and I'm

going to give you a hundred and fifty for him."



He opened his pocket-book and counted out the bills.



Beauty Smith put his hands behind his back, refusing to touch the

proffered money.



"I ain't a-sellin'," he said.



"Oh, yes you are," the other assured him.  "Because I'm buying.  Here's

your money.  The dog's mine."



Beauty Smith, his hands still behind him, began to back away.



Scott sprang toward him, drawing his fist back to strike.  Beauty Smith

cowered down in anticipation of the blow.


the meantime he would wait and see.



The god remained quiet, made no movement; and White Fang's snarl slowly

dwindled to a growl that ebbed down in his throat and ceased.  Then the

god spoke, and at the first sound of his voice, the hair rose on White

Fang's neck and the growl rushed up in his throat.  But the god made no

hostile movement, and went on calmly talking.  For a time White Fang

growled in unison with him, a correspondence of rhythm being established

between growl and voice.  But the god talked on interminably.  He talked

to White Fang as White Fang had never been talked to before.  He talked

softly and soothingly, with a gentleness that somehow, somewhere, touched

White Fang.  In spite of himself and all the pricking warnings of his

instinct, White Fang began to have confidence in this god.  He had a

feeling of security that was belied by all his experience with men.



After a long time, the god got up and went into the cabin.  White Fang

scanned him apprehensively when he came out.  He had neither whip nor

club nor weapon.  Nor was his uninjured hand behind his back hiding

something.  He sat down as before, in the same spot, several feet away.

He held out a small piece of meat.  White Fang pricked his ears and

investigated it suspiciously, managing to look at the same time both at

the meat and the god, alert for any overt act, his body tense and ready

to spring away at the first sign of hostility.



Still the punishment delayed.  The god merely held near to his nose a

piece of meat.  And about the meat there seemed nothing wrong.  Still

White Fang suspected; and though the meat was proffered to him with short

inviting thrusts of the hand, he refused to touch it.  The gods were all-

wise, and there was no telling what masterful treachery lurked behind

that apparently harmless piece of meat.  In past experience, especially

in dealing with squaws, meat and punishment had often been disastrously

related.



But that was not all.  What of his joy, the great love in him, ever

surging and struggling to express itself, succeeded in finding a new

mode of expression.  He suddenly thrust his head forward and nudged his

way in between the master's arm and body.  And here, confined, hidden

from view all except his ears, no longer growling, he continued to nudge

and snuggle.



The two men looked at each other.  Scott's eyes were shining.



"Gosh!" said Matt in an awe-stricken voice.



A moment later, when he had recovered himself, he said, "I always

insisted that wolf was a dog.  Look at 'm!"



With the return of the love-master, White Fang's recovery was rapid.  Two

nights and a day he spent in the cabin.  Then he sallied forth.  The sled-

dogs had forgotten his prowess.  They remembered only the latest, which

was his weakness and sickness.  At the sight of him as he came out of the

cabin, they sprang upon him.



"Talk about your rough-houses," Matt murmured gleefully, standing in the

doorway and looking on.



"Give 'm hell, you wolf!  Give 'm hell!--an' then some!"



White Fang did not need the encouragement.  The return of the love-master

was enough.  Life was flowing through him again, splendid and

indomitable.  He fought from sheer joy, finding in it an expression of

much that he felt and that otherwise was without speech.  There could be

but one ending.  The team dispersed in ignominious defeat, and it was not

until after dark that the dogs came sneaking back, one by one, by

meekness and humility signifying their fealty to White Fang.



Having learned to snuggle, White Fang was guilty of it often.  It was the

final word.  He could not go beyond it.  The one thing of which he had

always been particularly jealous was his head.  He had always disliked to

have it touched.  It was the Wild in him, the fear of hurt and of the

trap, that had given rise to the panicky impulses to avoid contacts.  It




"'Bout time you come," growled the god of the car, an hour later, when

Weedon Scott appeared at the door.  "That dog of yourn won't let me lay a

finger on your stuff."



White Fang emerged from the car.  He was astonished.  The nightmare city

was gone.  The car had been to him no more than a room in a house, and

when he had entered it the city had been all around him.  In the interval

the city had disappeared.  The roar of it no longer dinned upon his ears.

Before him was smiling country, streaming with sunshine, lazy with

quietude.  But he had little time to marvel at the transformation.  He

accepted it as he accepted all the unaccountable doings and

manifestations of the gods.  It was their way.



There was a carriage waiting.  A man and a woman approached the master.

The woman's arms went out and clutched the master around the neck--a

hostile act!  The next moment Weedon Scott had torn loose from the

embrace and closed with White Fang, who had become a snarling, raging

demon.



"It's all right, mother," Scott was saying as he kept tight hold of White

Fang and placated him.  "He thought you were going to injure me, and he

wouldn't stand for it.  It's all right.  It's all right.  He'll learn

soon enough."



"And in the meantime I may be permitted to love my son when his dog is

not around," she laughed, though she was pale and weak from the fright.



She looked at White Fang, who snarled and bristled and glared

malevolently.



"He'll have to learn, and he shall, without postponement," Scott said.



He spoke softly to White Fang until he had quieted him, then his voice

became firm.



"Down, sir!  Down with you!"



This had been one of the things taught him by the master, and White Fang

obeyed, though he lay down reluctantly and sullenly.



"Now, mother."



Scott opened his arms to her, but kept his eyes on White Fang.

White Fang left the chicken for the man.  A club might have stopped White

Fang, but not a whip.  Silently, without flinching, he took a second cut

in his forward rush, and as he leaped for the throat the groom cried out,

"My God!" and staggered backward.  He dropped the whip and shielded his

throat with his arms.  In consequence, his forearm was ripped open to the

bone.



The man was badly frightened.  It was not so much White Fang's ferocity

as it was his silence that unnerved the groom.  Still protecting his

throat and face with his torn and bleeding arm, he tried to retreat to

the barn.  And it would have gone hard with him had not Collie appeared

on the scene.  As she had saved Dick's life, she now saved the groom's.

She rushed upon White Fang in frenzied wrath.  She had been right.  She

had known better than the blundering gods.  All her suspicions were

justified.  Here was the ancient marauder up to his old tricks again.



The groom escaped into the stables, and White Fang backed away before

Collie's wicked teeth, or presented his shoulder to them and circled

round and round.  But Collie did not give over, as was her wont, after a

decent interval of chastisement.  On the contrary, she grew more excited

and angry every moment, until, in the end, White Fang flung dignity to

the winds and frankly fled away from her across the fields.



"He'll learn to leave chickens alone," the master said.  "But I can't

give him the lesson until I catch him in the act."



Two nights later came the act, but on a more generous scale than the

master had anticipated.  White Fang had observed closely the

chicken-yards and the habits of the chickens.  In the night-time, after

they had gone to roost, he climbed to the top of a pile of newly hauled

lumber.  From there he gained the roof of a chicken-house, passed over

the ridgepole and dropped to the ground inside.  A moment later he was

inside the house, and the slaughter began.


"You have only Weedon's opinion for that," rejoined the judge.  "He

merely surmises that there is some strain of dog in White Fang; but as he

will tell you himself, he knows nothing about it.  As for his

appearance--"



He did not finish his sentence.  White Fang stood before him, growling

fiercely.



"Go away!  Lie down, sir!" Judge Scott commanded.



White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.  She screamed with fright as

he seized her dress in his teeth and dragged on it till the frail fabric

tore away.  By this time he had become the centre of interest.



He had ceased from his growling and stood, head up, looking into their

faces.  His throat worked spasmodically, but made no sound, while he

struggled with all his body, convulsed with the effort to rid himself of

the incommunicable something that strained for utterance.



"I hope he is not going mad," said Weedon's mother.  "I told Weedon that

I was afraid the warm climate would not agree with an Arctic animal."



"He's trying to speak, I do believe," Beth announced.



At this moment speech came to White Fang, rushing up in a great burst of

barking.



"Something has happened to Weedon," his wife said decisively.



They were all on their feet now, and White Fang ran down the steps,

looking back for them to follow.  For the second and last time in his

life he had barked and made himself understood.



After this event he found a warmer place in the hearts of the Sierra

Vista people, and even the groom whose arm he had slashed admitted that

he was a wise dog even if he was a wolf.  Judge Scott still held to the

same opinion, and proved it to everybody's dissatisfaction by

measurements and descriptions taken from the encyclopaedia and various

works on natural history.



The days came and went, streaming their unbroken sunshine over the Santa

Clara Valley.  But as they grew shorter and White Fang's second winter in

the Southland came on, he made a strange discovery.  Collie's teeth were

