    CONTENTS      CHAP.                                                           PAGE    PROLOGUE--SANDERS, C.M.G                                      7    I HAMILTON OF THE HOUSSAS                                      52    II THE DISCIPLINARIANS                                          71    III THE LOST N'BOSINI                                            88    IV THE FETISH STICK                                            108    V  A FRONTIER AND A CODE                                      123    VI THE SOUL OF THE NATIVE WOMAN                                148 
[Footnote 1: Allamandi--German territory.]    He was silent a long time and his brown-eyed wife looked at him  curiously.    "Yet what can you do, my lord?" she asked. "Although you are very  powerful, and Sandi loves you, this is certain, that none will listen to  _you_ and do honour to Sandi at your word--though I do not know the ways  of the white people, yet of this I am sure."    Again Bosambo's large mouth stretched from ear to ear, and his two rows  of white teeth gleamed pleasantly.    "You are as the voice of wisdom and the very soul of cleverness," he  said, "for you speak that which is true. Yet I know ways, for I am very  cunning and wise, being a holy man and acquainted with blessed apostles  such as Paul and the blessed Peter, who had his ear cut off because a  certain dancing woman desired it. Also by magic it was put on again  because he could not hear the cocks crow. All this and similar things I  have here." He touched his forehead.    Wise woman that she was, she had made no attempt to pry into her  husband's business, but spent the days preparing for the journey, she  and the nut-brown sprawling child of immense girth, who was the apple  of Bosambo's eye.    So Bosambo had passed down the river as has been described, and four  days after he left there disappeared from the Ochori village ten  brothers in blood of his, young hunting men who had faced all forms of  death for the very love of it, and these vanished from the land and none  knew where they went save that they did not follow on their master's  trail.    Tukili, the chief of the powerful eastern island Isisi, or, as it is  contemptuously called, the N'gombi-Isisi by the riverain folk, went  hunting one day, and ill fortune led him to the border of the Ochori  country. Ill fortune was it for one Fimili, a straight maid of fourteen,  beautiful by native standard, who was in the forest searching for roots  which were notorious as a cure for "boils" which distressed her 
"My children," said Hamilton, whiffling his pliant cane, "soon there  will come here a member of government who knows nothing. Also he may  stray into the forest and lose himself as the bride-groom's cow strays  from the field of his father-in-law, not knowing his new surroundings.  Now it is to you we look for his safety--I and the government. Also  Sandi, our lord. You shall not let this stranger out of your sight, nor  shall you allow approach him any such evil men as the N'gombi iron  sellers or the fishing men of N'gar or makers of wooden charms, for the  government has said this man must not be robbed, but must be treated  well, and you of the guard shall all salute him, also, when the time  arrives."    Hamilton meant no disrespect in his graphic illustration. He was dealing  with a simple people who required vivid word-pictures to convince them.  And certainly they found nothing undignified in the right honourable  gentleman when he arrived next morning.    He was above the medium height, somewhat stout, very neat and orderly,  and he twirled a waxed moustache, turning grey. He had heavy and bilious  eyes, and a certain pompousness of manner distinguished him. Also an  effervescent geniality which found expression in shaking hands with  anybody who happened to be handy, in mechanically agreeing with all  views that were put before him and immediately afterwards contradicting  them; in a painful desire to be regarded as popular. In fact, in all the  things which got immediately upon Sanders' nerves, this man was a sealed  pattern of a bore.    He wanted to know things, but the things he wanted to know were of no  importance, and the information he extracted could not be of any  assistance to him. His mind was largely occupied in such vital problems  as what happened to the brooms which the Houssas used to keep their  quarters clean when they were worn out, and what would be the effect of  an increased ration of lime juice upon the morals and discipline of the  troops under Hamilton's command. Had he been less of a trial Sanders  would not have allowed him to go into the interior without a stronger 
his love Mimbimi will do a great thing. Also he said," the man went on,  "and this is the greatest message of all. Before I speak further you  must make a book of my words."    Sanders frowned. It was an unusual request from a native, for his offer  to be set down in writing. "You might take a note of this, Hamilton," he  said aside, "though why the deuce he wants a note of this made I cannot  for the life of me imagine. Go on, messenger," he said more mildly; "for  as you see my lord Hamilton makes a book."    "Thus says my lord Mimbimi," resumed the man, "that because of his love  for Sandi he would give you the fat white lord whom he has taken, asking  for no rods or salt in repayment, but doing this because of his love for  Sandi and also because he is a just and a noble man; therefore do I  deliver the fat one into your hands."    Sanders gasped.    "Do you speak the truth?" he asked incredulously.    The man nodded his head.    "Where is the fat lord?" asked Sanders. This was no time for ceremony or  for polite euphemistic descriptions even of Cabinet Ministers.    "Master, he is in the forest, less than the length of the village from  here, I have tied him to a tree."    Sanders raced across the plank and through the Houssa lines, dragging  the messenger by the arm, and Hamilton, with a hastily summoned guard,  followed. They found Joseph Blowter tied scientifically to a gum-tree, a  wedge of wood in his mouth to prevent him speaking, and he was a  terribly unhappy man. Hastily the bonds were loosed, and the gag  removed, and the groaning Cabinet Minister led, half carried to the  _Zaire_.    He recovered sufficiently to take dinner that night, was full of his  adventures, inclined perhaps to exaggerate his peril, pardonably  exasperated against the man who had led him through so many dangers,  real and imaginary. But, above all things, he was grateful to Sanders.    He acknowledged that he had got into his trouble through no fault of the 
  With this course N'gori must feign agreement. He watched the departing  army--paddlers sitting on swathes of filched spears. Once Bosambo was  out of sight, N'gori collected all the convertible property of his city  and sent it in ten canoes to the edge of the N'gombi country, for  N'gombi folk are wonderful makers of spears and have a saleable stock  hidden against emergency.    For the space of a month there was enacted a comedy of which Hamilton  was ignorant. Three days after Bosambo had returned in triumph to his  city, there came a frantic call for succour--a rolling, terrified  rat-a-plan of sound which the _lokali_ man of the Ochori village read.    "Lord," said he, waking Bosambo in the dead of night, "there has come  down a signal from the Akasava, who are pressed by their enemies and  have no spears."    Bosambo was in the dark street instanter, his booming war-drum calling  urgently. Twenty canoes filled with fighting men, paddling desperately  with the stream, raced to the aid of the defenceless Akasava.    At dawn, on the beach of the city, N'gori met his ally. "I thank all my  little gods you have come, my lord," said he, humbly; "for in the night  one of my young men saw an Isisi army coming against us."    "Where is the army?" demanded a weary Bosambo.    "Lord, it has not come," said N'gori, glibly; "for hearing of your  lordship and your swift canoes, I think it had run away."    Bosambo's force paddled back to the Ochori city the next day. Two nights  after, the call was repeated--this time with greater detail. An N'gombi  force of countless spears had seized the village of Doozani and was  threatening the capital.    Again Bosambo carried his spears to a killing, and again was met by an  apologetic N'gori.    "Lord, it was a lie which a sick maiden spread," he explained, "and my  stomach is filled with sorrow that I should have brought the mighty  Bosambo from his wife's bed on such a night." For the dark hours had  been filled with rain and tempest, and Bosambo had nearly lost one canoe 
"Well, you're an ass!" said Hamilton, who could think of nothing better  to say.    "Yes, sir," said Bones; "I think you're repeating yourself, sir. I seem  to have heard a similar observation before."    "You've made Bosambo and the whole of the Ochori as sick as monkeys, and  you've made me look a fool."    "Hardly my responsibility, sir," said Bones, gently.    "I hardly know what to do with you," said Hamilton, drawing his pipe  from his pocket and slowly charging it. "Naturally, Bones, I can never  let you loose again on the country." He lit his pipe and puffed  thoughtfully. "And of course----"    "Pardon me, sir," said Bones, still uncomfortably erect, "this is  intended to be a sort of official inquiry an' all that sort of thing,  isn't it?"    "It is," said Hamilton.    "Well, sir," said Bones, "may I ask you not to smoke? When a chap's  honour an' reputation an' all that sort of thing is being weighed in the  balance, sir, believe me, smokin' isn't decent--it isn't really, sir."    Hamilton looked round for something to throw at his critic and found a  tolerably heavy book, but Bones dodged and fielded it dexterously. "And  if you must chuck things at me, sir," he added, as he examined the title  on the back of the missile, "will you avoid as far as possible usin' the  sacred volumes of the Army List? It hurts me to tell you this, sir, but  I've been well brought up."    "What's the time?" asked Hamilton, and his second-in-command examined  his watch.    "Ten to tiffin," he said. "Good Lord, we've been gassin' an hour. Any  news from Sanders?"    "He's in town--that's all I know--but don't change the serious subject,  Bones. Everybody is awfully disgusted with you--Sanders would have at  least brought him to trial."    "I couldn't do it, sir," said Bones, firmly. "Poor old bird! He looked  such an ass, an' moreover reminded me so powerfully of an aunt of mine  that I simply couldn't do it."    No doubt but that Lieut. Francis Augustus Tibbetts of the Houssas, with 
thought he detected a gruffer and more robust note in the tone.    "Mail-boat's just in, sir," Bones went on with unusual fierceness.  "You're in time to meet His Excellency. Stores all laid out, books in  trim, parade ground and quarters whitewashed as per your jolly old  orders, sir."    He saluted again, his eyes bulging, his face a veritable mask of  ferocity, and, turning on his heel, he led the way to the beach.    "Here, hold hard!" said Hamilton; "what the dickens is the matter with  you?"    "Seen the error of my ways, sir," growled Bones, again saluting  punctiliously. "I've been an ass, sir--too lenient--given you a lot of  trouble--shan't occur again."    There was not time to ask any further questions.    The two men had to run to reach the landing place in time, for the surf  boats were at that moment rolling to the yellow beach.    Sir Robert Sanleigh, in spotless white, was carried ashore, and his  staff followed.    "Ah, Hamilton," said the great Bob, "everything all right?"    "Yes, your Excellency," said Hamilton, "there have been one or two  serious killing palavers on which I will report."    Sir Robert nodded.    "You were bound to have a little trouble as soon as Sanders went," he  said.    He was a methodical man and had little time for the work at hand, for  the mail-boat was waiting to carry him to another station. Books,  quarters, and stores were in apple-pie order, and inwardly Hamilton  raised his voice in praise of the young man, who strode silently and  fiercely by his side, his face still distorted with a new-found  fierceness.    "The Houssas are all right, I suppose?" asked Sir Robert. "Discipline  good--no crime?"    "The discipline is excellent, sir," replied Hamilton, heartily, "and we  haven't had any serious crime for years."    Sir Robert Sanleigh fixed his _pince-nez_ upon his nose and looked round  the parade ground. A dozen Houssas in two ranks stood at attention in  the centre.    "Where are the rest of your men?" asked the Administrator. 
The palavers he called had a deeper significance to the men who attended  them than purely geographical inquiries. Thus, the folk of the Isisi  planning a little raid upon certain Akasava fishermen, who had  established themselves unlawfully upon the Isisi river-line, put away  their spears and folded their hands when N'bosini was mentioned, because  Bones was unconsciously probing their excuse before they advanced it.    Idigi, himself, who, in his caution, had prepared Hamilton for some  slight difference of opinion between his own tribe and the N'gombi of  the interior, read into the earnest inquiries of Lieutenant Tibbetts,  something more than a patient spirit of research.    All that Hamilton had set his subordinate to accomplish Bones was doing,  though none was more in ignorance of the fact than himself, and, since  all men owed a grudge to the Ochori, palavers, which had as their object  an investigation into the origin of the N'bosini legend, invariably  ended in the suggestion rather than the statement that the only  authority upon this mysterious land, and the still more mysterious tribe  who inhabited it, was Bosambo of the Ochori. Thus, subtly, was Bosambo  saddled with all responsibility in the matter.    Hamilton's parting injunction to Bones had been:    "Be immensely civil to Bosambo, because he is rather sore with you and  he is a very useful man."    Regarding him, as he did, as the final authority upon the N'bosini,  Bones made elaborate preparations to carry out his chief's commands. He  came round the river bend to the Ochori city, with flags fluttering at  his white mast, with his soldiers drawn up on deck, with his buglers  tootling, and his siren sounding, and Bosambo, ever ready to jump to the  conclusion that he was being honoured for his own sake, found that this  time, at least, he had made no mistake and rose to the occasion.    In an emerald-green robe with twelve sox suspenders strapped about his  legs and dangling tags a-glitter--he had bought these on his visit to  the Coast--with an umbrella of state and six men carrying a canopy over  his august person, he came down to the beach to greet the 
carrying the long stem through the forest (Sanders had devilishly chosen  his tree in the most inaccessible part of the woods), and yet another  week digging large holes and erecting it.    For he was a difficult man to please. Broad backs ran sweat to pull and  push and hoist that great flagstaff (as it appeared with its strong  pulley and smooth sides) to its place. And no sooner was it up than my  lord Sandi had changed his mind and must have it in another place.  Sanders would come back at intervals to see how the work was  progressing. At last it was fixed, that monstrous pole, and the men of  the village sighed thankfully.    "Lord, tell me," N'gori had asked, "why you put this great stick in the  ground?"    "This," said Sanders, "is for him who injures M'fosa your son; upon this  will I hang him. And if there be more men than one who take to the work  of slaughter, behold! I will have yet another tree cut and hauled, and  put in a place and upon that will I hang the other man. All men shall  know this sign, the high stick as my fetish; and it shall watch the evil  hearts and carry me all thoughts, good and evil. And then I tell you,  that such is its magic, that if needs be, it shall draw me from the end  of the world to punish wrong."    This is the story of the fetish stick of the Akasava and of how it came  to be in its place.    None did hurt to M'fosa, and he grew to be a man, and as he grew and his  father became first counsellor, then petty chief, and, at last,  paramount chief of the nation, M'fosa developed in hauteur and  bitterness, for this high pole rainwashed, and sun-burnt, was a  reminder, not of the strong hand that had been stretched out to save  him, but of his own infirmity.    And he came to hate it, and by some curious perversion to hate the man  who had set it up.    Most curious of all to certain minds, he was the first of those who 
voice.    There stood Sandi--not half a dozen paces from him.    A Sandi in strange black clothing with a big white-breasted shirt ...  but Sandi, hard-eyed and threatening.    "Lord, lord!" he stammered, and put up his hands to his eyes.    He looked again--the figure had vanished.    "Magic!" he mumbled, and lurched forward in terror and hate to finish  his work.    Then through the crowd stalked a tall man.    A rope of monkeys' tails covers one broad shoulder; his left arm and  hand were hidden by an oblong shield of hide.    In one hand he held a slim throwing spear and this he balanced  delicately.    "I am Bosambo of the Ochori," he said magnificently and unnecessarily;  "you sent for me and I have come--bringing a thousand spears."    M'fosa blinked, but said nothing.    "On the river," Bosambo went on, "I met many canoes that went to a  killing--behold!"    It was the head of M'fosa's lieutenant, who had charge of the surprise  party.    For a moment M'fosa looked, then turned to leap, and Bosambo's spear  caught him in mid-air.    "Jolly old Bosambo!" muttered Bones, and fainted.    *       *       *       *       *    Four thousand miles away Sanders was offering his apologies to a  startled company.    "I could have sworn I saw--something," he said, and he told no more  stories that night.          CHAPTER V    A FRONTIER AND A CODE      To understand this story you must know that at one point of Ochori  borderline, the German, French, and Belgian territories shoot three  narrow tongues that form, roughly, the segments of a half-circle.  Whether the German tongue is split in the middle by N'glili River, so  that it forms a flattened broad arrow, with the central prong the river  is a moot point. We, in Downing Street, claim that the lower angle of 
star of the Belgian Congo, ready to belch fire at them, if they so much  as showed their flat noses.    It would have needed a Napoleon to have combined all the conflicting  forces, to have lulled all the mutual suspicions, and to have moulded  these incompatible particles into a whole; but, Bizaro, like many  another vain and ambitious man, had sought by means of a great palaver  to produce a feeling of security sufficiently soothing to the nerves and  susceptibilities of all elements, to create something like a nationality  of these scattered remnants of the nations.    And though he failed, he did succeed in bringing together four or five  of the camps, and it was this news carried to the French Governor by  spies, transmitted to Downing Street, and flashed back again to the  Coast, which set Hamilton and his Houssas moving; which brought a  regiment of the King's African Rifles to the Coast ready to reinforce  the earlier expedition, and which (more to the point) had put Bosambo's  war drums rumbling from one end of the Ochori to the other.    Bizaro, mustering his force, came gaily through the sun-splashed aisles  of the forest, his face streaked hideously with camwood, his big  elephant spear twirled between his fingers, and behind him straggled his  cosmopolitan force.    There were men from the Congo and the French Congo; men from German  lands; from Angola; wanderers from far-off Barotseland, who had drifted  on to the Congo by the swift and yellow Kasai. There were hunters from  the forests of far-off Bongindanga where the _okapi_ roams. For each  man's presence in that force there was good and sinister reason, for  these were no mere tax-evaders, poor, starved wretches fleeing from the  rule which _Bula Matadi_[4] imposed. There was a blood price on almost  every head, and in a dozen prisons at Boma, at Brazaville, and  Equatorville, and as far south as St. Paul de Loduda, there were  leg-irons which had at some time or other fitted their scarred ankles.    [Footnote 4: The stone breaker, the native name for the Congo  Government.]    Now there are four distinct physical features which mark the border line 
  "Here it is," he said, "but I must confess that I don't understand the  numbers."    He handed it to Bones. It read:    "Mercutio 17178."    Bones looked at it a moment, then gasped. He reached out his hand  solemnly and grasped that of the astounded Hamilton.    "Dear old fellow," he said in a broken voice, "Congratulate me, I have  drawn a runner!"    "A runner?"    "A runner, dear old sport," chortled Bones, "in the Cambridgeshire! You  see I've got a ticket number seventeen, seventeen eight in my pocket,  dear old friend! If Mercutio wins," he repeated solemnly, "I will stand  you the finest dinner that can be secured this side of Romano's."          CHAPTER VI    THE SOUL OF THE NATIVE WOMAN      Mail day is ever a day of supreme interest for the young and for the  matter of that for the middle-aged, too. Sanders hated mail days because  the bulk of his correspondence had to do with Government, and Government  never sat down with a pen in its hand to wish Sanders many happy returns  of the day or to tell him scandalous stories about mutual friends.    Rather the Government (by inference) told him scandalous stories about  himself--of work not completed to the satisfaction of Downing Street--a  thoroughfare given to expecting miracles.    Hamilton had a sister who wrote wittily and charmingly every week, and  there was another girl ... Still, two letters and a bright pink paper or  two made a modest postbag by the side of Lieutenant Tibbetts' mail.    There came to Bones every mail day a thick wad of letters and parcels  innumerable, and he could sit at the big table for hours on end,  whistling a little out of tune, mumbling incoherently. He had a trick of  commenting upon his letters aloud, which was very disconcerting for  Hamilton. Bones wouldn't open a letter and get half-way through it  before he began his commenting.   
disconcerted Bones, one small hand resting on her hip, her chin (as  usual) tilted down at him from under lashes uncommonly long for a  native.    Also, this Bones saw, she was gifted with more delicate features than  the native woman can boast as a rule. The nose was straight and narrow,  the lips full, yet not of the negroid type. She was in fact a pure  Ochori woman, and the Ochori are related dimly to the Arabi tribes.    "Lord, Bosambo the King has sent me to speak about women," she said  simply.    "Doocidly awkward," said Bones to himself, and blushed.    "O, D'riti," he stammered, "it is true I wish to speak of women, for I  make a book that all white lords will read."    "Therefore have I come," she said. "Now listen, O my lord, whilst I tell  you of women, and of all they think, of their love for men and of the  strange way they show it. Also of children----"    "Look here," said Bones, loudly. "I don't want any--any--private  information, my child----"    Then realizing from her frown that she did not understand him, he  returned to Bomongo.    "Lord, I will say what is to be said," she remarked, meekly, "for you  have a gentle face and I see that your heart is very pure."    Then she began, and Bones listened with open mouth ... later he was to  feel his hair rise and was to utter gurgling protests, for she spoke  with primitive simplicity about things that are never spoken about at  all. He tried to check her, but she was not to be checked.    "Goodness, gracious heavens!" gasped Bones.    She told him of what women think of men, and of what men _think_ women  think of them, and there was a remarkable discrepancy if she spoke the  truth. He asked her if she was married.    "Lord," she said at last, eyeing him thoughtfully, "it is written that I  shall marry one who is greater than chiefs."    "I'll bet you will, too," thought Bones, sweating.    At parting she took his hand and pressed it to her cheek. 
lightnings."    He had been seen in many places in the Ochori, in the N'gombi city, in  the villages of the Akasava, but mainly his hunting ground was the  narrow strip of territory which is called Lombobo.    B'limi Saka, the chief of the land, himself a believer in devils, was  especially perturbed lest the Silent Walker should be a spy of  Government, for he had been guilty of practices which were particularly  obnoxious to the white men who were so swift to punish.    "Yet," said he to his daughter and (to the disgust of his people, who  despised women) his chief councillor, "none know my heart save you,  Lamalana."    Lamalana, with her man shoulders and her flat face, peered at her  grizzled father sideways.    "Devils hear hearts," she said huskily, "and when they talk of killings  and sacrifices are not all devils pleased? Now I tell you this, my  father, that I wait for sacrifices which you swore by death you would  show me."    B'limi Saka looked round fearfully. Though the ferocity of this chief  was afterwards revealed, though secret places in the forest held his  horrible secret killing-houses, yet he was a timid man with a certain  affection of his eyes which made him dependent upon the childless widow  who had been his strength for two years.    The Lombobo were the cruellest of Sanders' people; their chiefs the most  treacherous. Neither akin to the N'gombi, the Isisi, the Akasava nor the  Ochori, they took on the worst attributes of each race.    Seldom in open warfare did they challenge the Administration, but there  was a long tale of slain and mutilated enemies who floated face  downwards in the stream; of disappearance of faithful servants of  Government, and of acts of cannibalism which went unidentified and  unpunished.    For though all the tribes, save the Ochori, had been cannibals, yet by  fire and rope, tempered with wisdom, had the Administration brought  about a newer era to the upper river.    But reformation came not to the Lombobo. A word from Sanders, a  carelessly expressed view, and the Lombobo people would have been swept 
as "N'gombi (Interior)," but who were neither N'gombi nor Isisi, nor of  any known branch of the Bantu race, but known as "the people of the  well." They had remarkable legends, sayings which they ascribed to a  mythical Idoosi; also they have a song which runs:    O well in the forest!  Which chiefs have digged;  No common men touched the earth,  But chiefs' spears and the hands of kings.    Now there is no doubt that both the sayings of Idoosi and the song of  the well have come down from days of antiquity, and that Idoosi is none  other than the writer of the lost book of the Bible, of whom it is  written:    "Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they not  written in the history of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy  of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the vision of Idoo the  seer?"[10]....    [Footnote 10: Chronicles II., ix. 29.]    And is not the Song of the Well identical with that brief extract from  the Book of Wars of the Lord--lost to us for ever--which runs:    "Spring up, O well: sing ye unto it: The well, which the princes  digged, Which the nobles of the people delved, With the sceptre ...  with their staves."[11]    [Footnote 11: Numbers xxi. 17.]    Some men say that the People of the Well are one of the lost tribes, but  that is an easy solution which suggests itself to the hasty-minded.  Others say that they are descendants of the Babylonian races, or that  they came down from Egypt when Rameses II died, and there arose a new  dynasty and a Pharaoh who did not know the wise Jewish Prime Minister  who ruled so wisely, who worshipped in the little temple at Karnac, and  whose statue you may see in Cairo with a strange Egyptian name. We know 
  He looked with a swift glance along the shore for landmarks.    "I hope to goodness you have not shot old M'zooba," he said.    "I don't know your friend by name," said Bones, "but why shouldn't I  shoot him?"    "Because, you silly ass," said Hamilton, "she is a sort of sacred  crocodile."    "She was never so sacred as she is now, sir, for:    "She's flapping her wings in the crocodile heaven," said Bones,  flippantly; "for I'm one of those dead shots--once I draw a bead on an  animal----"    "Get out a canoe and set the woodmen to dive for the Green One," said  Hamilton to his orderly, for a shot crocodile invariably sinks to the  bottom and can only be recovered by diving.    They brought it to the surface, and Hamilton groaned.    "It is M'zooba," he said in resigned exasperation. "Oh, Bones, what an  ass you are!"    Bones said nothing, but walked to the stern of the ship and lowered the  blue ensign to half-mast--a piece of impertinence which Hamilton did not  discover till a long time afterwards.    Now whatever might be the desire or wish of Hamilton, and however much  he might on ordinary occasions depend upon the loyalty of his warders  and his men, in this matter of the green crocodile he was entirely at  their mercy, for he could not call them together asking them to speak no  death of the Green One without magnifying the importance of Lieutenant  Tibbetts' rash act. The only attitude he could adopt was to treat the  Green One and her untimely end as something which was in the day's work  neither to be lamented nor acclaimed, and when, at the first village, a  doleful deputation, comprising a worried chief and a sulky witch doctor,  called upon him to bemoan the tragedy, he treated the matter with great  joviality.    "For what is a crocodile more or less in this river?" he asked.    "Lord, this was no crocodile," said the witch doctor, "but a very  reverend ghost, and it has been our Ju-ju for many years, bringing us 
"Oh, nothing!" said Bones carelessly and whistled, looking up to the  stars that were peeping from the sky; and the inside of Lieutenant  Tibbetts was one large expansive grin.          CHAPTER X    HENRY HAMILTON BONES      Lieutenant Francis Augustus Tibbetts of the Houssas was at some  disadvantage with his chief and friend. Lieutenant F. A. Tibbetts might  take a perfectly correct attitude, might salute on every possible  occasion that a man could salute, might click his heels together in the  German fashion (he had spent a year at Heidelberg), might be stiffly  formal and so greet his superior that he contrived to combine a dutiful  recognition with the cut direct, but never could he overcome one fatal  obstacle to marked avoidance--he had to grub with Hamilton.    Bones was hurt. Hamilton had behaved to him as no brother officer should  behave. Hamilton had spoken harshly and cruelly in the matter of a  commission with which he had entrusted his subordinate, and with which  the aforesaid subordinate had lamentably failed to cope.    Up in the Akasava country a certain wise man named M'bisibi had  predicted the coming of a devil-child who should be born on a night when  the moon lay so on the river and certain rains had fallen in the  forest.    And this child should be called "Ewa," which is death; and first his  mother would die and then his father; and he would grow up to be a  scourge to his people and a pestilence to his nation, and crops would  wither when he walked past them, and the fish in the river would float  belly up in stinking death, and until Ewa M'faba himself went out,  nothing but ill-fortune should come to the N'gombi-Isisi.    Thus M'bisibi predicted, and the word went up and down the river, for  the prophet was old and accounted wise even by Bosambo of the Ochori.    It came to Hamilton quickly enough, and he had sent Bones post-haste to  await the advent of any unfortunate youngster who was tactless enough to  put in an appearance at such an inauspicious moment as would fulfil the 
He searched the pocket of his haversack, and had the good fortune to  find a biscuit; his vacuum flask had just half a cup of warm tea. He fed  the baby with soaked biscuit and drank the tea himself.    "You ought to have a bath or something," said Bones, severely; but it  was not until an hour later that he found a forest pool in which to  perform the ablution.    At three o'clock in the afternoon, as near as he could judge, for his  watch had stopped, he struck a path, and would have reached the village  before sundown, but for the fact that he again missed the path, and  learnt of this fact about the same time he discovered he had lost his  compass.    Bones looked dismally at the wide-awake child.    "Dear old companion in arms," he said, gloomily, "we are lost."    The baby's face creased in a smile.    "It's nothing to laugh about, you silly ass," said Bones.      IV    "Master, of our Lord Tibbetti I do not know," said M'bisibi sullenly.    "Yet you shall know before the sun is black," said Hamilton, "and your  young men shall find him, or there is a tree for you, old man, a quick  death by _Ewa_!"    "I have sought, my lord," said M'bisibi, "all my hunters have searched  the forest, yet we have not found him. A certain devil-pot is here."    He fumbled under a native cloth and drew forth Bones' compass.    "This only could we find on the forest path that leads to Inilaki."    "And the child is with him?"    "So men say," said M'bisibi, "though by my magic I know that the child  will die, for how can a white man who knows nothing of little children  give him life and comfort? Yet," he amended carefully, since it was  necessary to preserve the character of the intended victim, "if this  child is indeed a devil child, as I believe, he will lead my lord  Tibbetti to terrible places and return himself unharmed."    "He will lead you to a place more terrible," said M'ilitani, 
  So Bones' visit was fruitless.    He dismissed the palaver and walked back to his ship, and worked the  river, village by village, with no more satisfactory result. That night  in the little town of M'fa there was a dance and a jubilation to  celebrate the cunning of a people who had outwitted and overawed the  lords of the land, but the next day came Bosambo, who had established a  system of espionage more far-reaching, and possibly more effective, than  the service which the Government had instituted.    Liberties they might take with Bones; but they sat discomforted in  palaver before this alien chief, swathed in monkey tails, his shield in  one hand, and his bunch of spears in the other.    "All things I know," said Bosambo, when they told him what they had to  tell, "and it has come to me that you have spoken lightly of Tibbetti,  who is my friend and my master, and is well beloved of Sandi. Also they  tell me that you smiled at him. Now I tell you there will come a day  when you will not smile, and that day is near at hand."    "Lord," said the chief, "he made with us a foolish palaver, believing  that we had put away B'chumbiri."    "And he shall return to that foolish palaver," said Bosambo grimly, "and  if he goes away unsatisfied, behold I will come, and I will take your  old men, and I will hang them by hooks into a tree and roast their feet.  For if there is no Sandi and no law, behold I am Sandi and I law, doing  the will of a certain bearded king, Togi-tani."    He left the village of M'fa a little unhappy for the space of a day,  when, native-like, they forgot all that he had said.    In the meantime, up and down the river went Bones, palavers which lasted  from sunrise to sunset being his portion.    He had in his mind one vital fact, that for the honour of his race and  for the credit of his administration he must bring to justice the man  who slew the thing which he had found in the river. Chiefs and elders 
have been shameful, and men would have said: 'Iberi is a mean man who  starves the guests of his house.' But only one half of my wise people  shall sit in your huts, Iberi, and the other half will rest with T'lingi  of the Akasava, and feed according to law. And behold, chiefs and  headmen, I am a very just man not to be turned this way or that by the  giving of gifts or by kindness shown to my people. Yet my heart is so  human and so filled with tenderness for my people, that I ask you not to  feed them too richly or give them presents of beauty, lest my noble mind  be influenced."    Whereupon his forces were divided, and each chief ransacked his land for  delicacies to feed them.    It was a long palaver--too long for the chiefs.    Was the island Akasava or Isisi? Old men of either nation testified with  oaths and swearings of death and other high matters that it was both.    From dawn to sunset Bosambo sat in the thatched palaver house, and on  either side of him was a brass pot into which he tossed from time to  time a grain of corn.    And every grain stood for a successful argument in favour of one or the  other of the contestants--the pot to the right being for the Akasava,  and that to the left for the Isisi.    And the night was given up to festivity, to the dancing of girls and the  telling of stories and other noble exercises.    On the tenth day Iberi met T'lingi secretly.    "T'lingi," said Iberi, "it seems to me that this island is not worth the  keeping if we have to feast this thief Bosambo and search our lands for  his pleasure."    "Lord Iberi," agreed his rival, "that is also in my mind--let us go to  this robber of our food and say the palaver shall finish to-morrow, for  I do not care whether the island is yours or mine if we can send Bosambo  back to his land."    "You speak my mind," said Iberi, and on the morrow they were blunt to 
