  DOWN UNDER DONOVAN

  PRIVATE SELBY

  THE ADMIRABLE CARFEW

  THE MAN WHO BOUGHT LONDON

  THE JUST MEN OF CORDOVA

  THE SECRET HOUSE

  KATE, PLUS TEN

  LIEUTENANT BONES

  THE ADVENTURES OF HEINE

  JACK O' JUDGMENT

  THE DAFFODIL MYSTERY

  THE NINE BEARS

  THE BOOK OF ALL POWER

  MR. JUSTICE MAXELL

  THE BOOKS OF BART

  THE DARK EYES OF LONDON

  CHICK

  SANDI, THE KING-MAKER

  THE THREE OAK MYSTERY

  THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE FROG

  BLUE HAND

  GREY TIMOTHY

  A DEBT DISCHARGED

  THOSE FOLK OF BULBORO

  THE MAN WHO WAS NOBODY

  THE GREEN RUST





  _Made and Printed in Great Britain by_

  Ward, Lock & Co., Limited, London.









  CONTENTS.





   CHAPTER                                PAGE



         I.--THE EDUCATION OF THE KING       5



        II.--KEEPERS OF THE STONE           29



       III.--BOSAMBO OF MONROVIA            47



        IV.--THE DROWSY ONE                 61



         V.--THE SPECIAL COMMISSIONER       78



        VI.--THE DANCING STONES             98



       VII.--THE FOREST OF HAPPY DREAMS    117


In other words he accused them of overstepping the creed of Equality and

encroaching upon the borderland of political agitation.



"Lies!" said the elder of the two, without hesitation.



"Truth or lies," he said, "you go no more to Isisi."



"Would you have the heathen remain in darkness?" asked the man, in

reproach. "Is the light we kindle too bright, master?"



"No," said Sanders, "but a bit too warm."



So he committed the outrage of removing the Ethiopians from the scene of

their earnest labours, in consequence of which questions were asked in

Parliament.



Then the chief of the Akasava people--an old friend--took a hand in the

education of King Peter. Akasava adjoins that king's territory, and the

chief came to give hints in military affairs.



He came with drums a-beating, with presents of fish and bananas and

salt.



"You are a great king!" he said to the sleepy-eyed boy who sat on a

stool of state, regarding him with open-mouthed interest. "When you walk

the world shakes at your tread; the mighty river that goes flowing down

to the big water parts asunder at your word, the trees of the forest

shiver, and the beasts go slinking to cover when your mightiness goes

abroad."



"Oh, ko, ko!" giggled the king, pleasantly tickled.



"The white men fear you," continued the chief of the Akasava; "they

tremble and hide at your roar."



Sato-Koto, standing at the king's elbow, was a practical man.



"What seek ye, chief?" he asked, cutting short the compliments.



So the chief told him of a land peopled by cowards, rich with the

treasures of the earth, goats, and women.



"Why do you not take them yourself?" demanded the regent.



"Because I am a slave," said the chief; "the slave of Sandi, who would

beat me. But you, lord, are of the great; being king's headman, Sandi

would not beat you because of your greatness."



There followed a palaver, which lasted two days.



"I shall have to do something with Peter," wrote Sanders despairingly to



"Now we will kill the king of the Isisi, and the white man also." The

voice was the chief's, but Sanders was not taking any particular

interest in the conversation, because there was a hive of wild bees

buzzing in his head, and a maze of pain; he felt sick.



"If you kill me it is little matter," said the king's voice, "because

there are many men who can take my place; but if you slay Sandi, you

slay the father of the people, and none can replace him."



"He whipped you, little king," said the chief of the Akasava mockingly.



"I would throw him into the river," said a strange voice after a long

interval; "thus shall no trace be found of him, and no man will lay his

death to our door."



"What of the king?" said another. Then came a crackling of twigs and the

voices of men.



"They are searching," whispered a voice. "King, if you speak I will kill

you now."



"Kill!" said the young king's even voice, and shouted, "Oh, M'sabo!

Beteli! Sandi is here!"



That was all Sandi heard.



       *     *     *     *     *



Two days later he sat up in bed and demanded information. There was a

young doctor with him when he woke, who had providentially arrived from

headquarters.



"The king?" he hesitated. "Well, they finished the king, but he saved

your life. I suppose you know that?"



Sanders said "Yes" without emotion.



"A plucky little beggar," suggested the doctor.



"Very," said Sanders. Then: "Did they catch the chief of the Akasava?"



"Yes; he was so keen on finishing you that he delayed his bolting. The

king threw himself on you and covered your body."



"That will do."



Sanders' voice was harsh and his manner brusque at the best of times,

but now his rudeness was brutal.



"Just go out of the hut, doctor--I want to sleep."


the way. Only occasionally did the party pass a tenanted hut. Generally

they saw by the dull glow of the log that smouldered in every habitation

that it was empty. Once a sick woman called to them in passing. It was

near her time, she said, and there was none to help her in the supreme

moment of her agony.



"God help you, sister!" said Sanders, ever in awe of the mysteries of

birth. "I will send women to you. What is your name?"



"They will not come," said the plaintive voice. "To-night the men go out

to war, and the women wait for the great dance."



"To-night?"



"To-night, master--so the ghosts of brass decree."



Sanders made a clicking noise with his mouth.



"That we shall see," he said, and went on.



The party reached the outskirts of the city. Before them, outlined

against a bronze sky, was the dark bulk of a little hill, and this they

skirted.



The bronze became red, and rose, and dull bronze again, as the fires

that gave it colour leapt or fell. Turning the shoulder of the hill,

Sanders had a full view of the scene.



Between the edge of the forest and slope of the hill was a broad strip

of level land. On the left was the river, on the right was swamp and

forest again.



In the very centre of the plain a huge fire burnt. Before it, supported

by its poles, on two high trestles, a square box.



But the people!



A huge circle, squatting on its haunches, motionless, silent; men,

women, children, tiny babies, at their mothers' hips they stretched; a

solid wheel of humanity, with the box and the fire as a hub.



There was a lane through which a man might reach the box--a lane along

which passed a procession of naked men, going and returning. These were

they who replenished the fire, and Sanders saw them dragging fuel for

that purpose. Keeping to the edge of the crowd, he worked his way to the

opening. Then he looked round at his men.

After this came a party from Isisi, and they must needs come through the

Akasava country.



They brought presents with them and lodged with the Akasava for one

night.



"What story is this of the Ochori?" asked the Isisi chief in command; so

the chief of the Akasava told him.



"You may save yourself the journey, for we have seen it."



"That," said the Isisi chief, "I will believe when I have seen."



"That is bad talk," said the Akasava people, who were gathered at the

palaver; "these dogs of Isisi call us liars."



Nevertheless there was no bloodshed, and in the morning the Isisi went

on their way.



The Ochori saw them coming, and hid in the woods, but the precaution was

unnecessary, for the Isisi departed as they came.



Other folk made a pilgrimage to the Ochori, N'Gombi, Bokeli, and the

Little People of the Forest, who were so shy that they came by night,

and the Ochori people began to realise a sense of their importance.



Then Bosambo, a Krooman and an adventurer at large, appeared on the

scene, having crossed eight hundred miles of wild land in the earnest

hope that time would dull the memory of the Liberian Government and

incidentally bring him to a land of milk and honey.



Now Bosambo had in his life been many things. He had been steward on an

Elder Dempster boat, he had been scholar at a mission school--he was the

proud possessor of a bound copy of _The Lives of the Saints_, a reward

of industry--and among his accomplishments was a knowledge of English.



The hospitable Ochori received him kindly, fed him with sweet manioc

and sugar-cane, and told him about Sandi's magic. After he had eaten,

Bosambo walked down to the post and read the inscription--



  TRESPASSERS BEWARE.



He was not impressed, and strolled back again thinking deeply.



"This magic," he said to the chief, "is good magic. I know, because I

have white man's blood in my veins."



In support of this statement he proceeded to libel a perfectly innocent




"Whatever you do," he said, "steer clear of that dam' Commissioner

Sanders. He's one of those pryin', interferin'----"



"I know the breed," said Cuthbert wisely. "This is not my first visit to

Africa. Did I ever tell you about the lion I shot in Uganda?"



A week later he sailed.



       *     *     *     *     *



In course of time came a strange white man through Sanders' domain. This

white man, who was Cuthbert, was following the green path to death--but

this he did not know. He threw his face to the forest, as the natives

say, and laughed, and the people of the village of O'Tembi, standing

before their wattle huts, watched him in silent wonder.



It was a wide path between huge trees, and the green of the undergrowth

was flecked with sunlight, and, indeed, the green path was beautiful to

the eye, being not unlike a parkland avenue.



N'Beki, chief of this village of the O'Tembi, a very good old man, went

out to the path when the white man began his journey.



"White man," he said solemnly, "this is the road to hell, where all

manner of devils live. Night brings remorse, and dawn brings

self-hatred, which is worse than death."



Cuthbert, whose Swaheli was faulty, and whose Bomongo talk was nil,

grinned impatiently as his coastboy translated unpicturesquely.



"Dam nigger done say, this be bad place, no good; he say bimeby you libe

for die."



"Tell him to go to blazes!" said Cuthbert noisily; "and, look here,

Flagstaff, ask him where the rubber is, see? Tell him we know all about

the forest, and ask him about the elephants, where their playground is?"



Cuthbert was broad-shouldered and heavily built, and under his broad

sun-helmet his face was very hot and moist.



"Tell the white man," said the chief quietly, "there is no rubber within

seven days' journey, and that we do not know ivory; elephants there were

was all that it was necessary to know. But this is where he made his big

mistake.



Up at Lukati all sorts of things happened, as Commissioner Sanders

knows, to his cost. Once he visited the district and left it tranquil,

and for Carter, his deputy, whom he left behind, the natives built a

most beautiful hut, planting gardens about, all off their own bat.



One day, when Carter had just finished writing an enthusiastic report on

the industry of his people, and the whole-hearted way they were taking

up and supporting the new rgime, the chief of the village, whom Carter

had facetiously named O'Leary (his born name was indeed Olari), came to

him.



Carter at the moment was walking through the well-swept street of the

village with his hands in his coat pockets and his big white helmet

tipped on the back of his head because the sun was setting at his back.



"Father," said the Chief Olari, "I have brought these people to see

you."



He indicated with a wave of his hand six strange warriors carrying their

shields and spears, who looked at him dispassionately.



Carter nodded.



"They desire," said Olari, "to see the wonderful little black fetish

that my father carries in his pocket that they may tell their people of

its powers."



"Tell your people," said Carter good-humouredly, "that I have not got

the fetish with me--if they will come to my hut I will show them its

wonders."



Whereupon Olari lifted his spear and struck at Carter, and the six

warriors sprang forward together. Carter fought gamely, but he was

unarmed.



When Sanders heard the news of his subordinate's death he did not faint

or fall into a fit of insane cursing. He was sitting on his broad

verandah at headquarters when the dusty messenger came. He rose with

pursed lips and frowning eyes, fingering the letter--this came from

Tollemache, inspector of police at Bokari--and paced the verandah.



"Poor chap, poor chap!" was all that he said.



He sent no message to Olari; he made no preparations for a punitive


The witch-doctor said something in reply, which the interpreter very

wisely refrained from putting into English.



       *     *     *     *     *



"How go the investigations?" asked the captain of Houssas three weeks

later.



"As far as I can gather," said Sanders, "our friend is collecting a

death-roll by the side of which the records of the Great Plague will

read like an advertisement of a health resort."



"Where is he now?"



"He has got to Lukati--and I am worried"; and Sanders looked it.



The Houssa captain nodded, for all manner of reports had come down from

Lukati country. There had been good crops, and good crops mean idleness,

and idleness means mischief. Also there had been devil dances, and the

mild people of the Bokari district, which lies contiguous to Lukati, had

lost women.



"I've got a free hand to nip rebellion in the bud," Sanders reflected

moodily; "and the chances point to rebellion----What do you say? Shall

we make a report and wait for reinforcements, or shall we chance our

luck?"



"It's your funeral," said the Houssa captain, "and I hate to advise you.

If things go wrong you'll get the kicks; but if it were mine I'd go,

like a shot--naturally."



"A hundred and forty men," mused Sanders.



"And two Maxims," suggested the other.



"We'll go," said Sanders; and half an hour later a bugle blared through

the Houssas' lines, and Sanders was writing a report to his chief in

far-away Lagos.



The Hon. George, it may be said, had no idea that he was anything but

welcome in the village of Lukati.



Olari the chief had greeted him pleasantly, and told him stories of

Sanders' brutality--stories which, as George wrote, "if true, must of

necessity sound the death-knell of British integrity in our native

possessions."



Exactly what that meant, I am not disposed to guess.



George stayed a month as the guest of Lukati. He had intended to stay at

three canoes, and Sanders, who, from where he sat, commanded an

uninterrupted view of the river, knew there was trouble--and guessed

what that trouble was.



"Justice!" demanded the chief, his voice trembling with the rage and

fear he had nursed, "justice against the Old One, the stealer of girls,

the destroyer of cities--may death go to him. Iwa!----"



The very day Sanders had left, the messenger of the great king had come,

and with him a hundred warriors, demanding the dancing girl. True to his

pre-arranged scheme, the chief began the inevitable bargaining over

terms. The presents offered were too small. The girl was worth a hundred

thousand rods--nay, a thousand bags of salt.



"You were mad," said Sanders calmly; "no woman is worth a thousand bags

of salt."



"Well, that might be," admitted the outraged father; "yet it would be

folly to begin by naming a price too low. The bargaining went on

through the night and all the next day, and in the end the envoy of the

great king grew impatient.



"Let the woman be sent for," he said, and obedient to the summons came

Daihili, demure enough, yet with covert glances of encouragement to the

unemotional ambassador, and with subtle exhibitions of her charms.



"Woman," said the messenger, "the greatest of kings desires you, will

you come?"



"Lord," said the girl, "I wish for nothing better."



With that, the hundred armed warriors in attendance at the palaver

closed round the girl.



"And so," said Sanders, "you got nothing?"



"Lord, it is as you say," moaned the old chief.



"It is evident," said Sanders, "that an injustice has been done; for no

man may take a woman unless he pay. I think," he added, with a flash of

that mordant humour which occasionally illuminated his judgments, "that

the man pays twice, once to the father, and all his life to his

wife--but that is as may be."



Six weeks later, after consultation, Sanders sent a messenger to the

great king, demanding the price of the woman.



What happened to the messenger I would rather not describe. That he was


He listened, then slipped out of bed, pulling on his mosquito boots.

Into the darkness of the night he stepped, and found N'Kema, the

engineer, waiting.



"You heard, master?" said the native.



"I heard," said Sanders, with a puzzled face, "yet we are nowhere near a

village."



He listened.



From the night came a hundred whispering noises, but above all these,

unmistakable, the faint clatter of an answering drum. The white man

frowned in his perplexity. "No village is nearer than the Bongindanga,"

he muttered, "not even a fishing village; the woods are deserted----"



The native held up a warning finger, and bent his head, listening. He

was reading the message that the drum sent. Sanders waited; he knew the

wonderful fact of this native telegraph, how it sent news through the

trackless wilds. He could not understand it, no European could; but he

had respect for its mystery.



"A white man is here," read the native; "he has the sickness."



"A white man!"



In the darkness Sanders' eyebrows rose incredulously.



"He is a foolish one," N'Kema read; "he sits in the Forest of Happy

Thoughts, and will not move."



Sanders clicked his lips impatiently. "No white man would sit in the

Forest of Happy Thoughts," he said, half to himself, "unless he were

mad."



But the distant drum monotonously repeated the outrageous news. Here,

indeed, in the heart of the loveliest glade in all Africa, encamped in

the very centre of the Green Path of Death, was a white man, a sick

white man--in the Forest of Happy Thoughts--a sick white man.



So the drum went on and on, till Sanders, rousing his own _lo-koli_ man,

sent an answer crashing along the river, and began to dress hurriedly.



In the forest lay a very sick man. He had chosen the site for the camp

himself. It was in a clearing, near a little creek that wound between

high elephant-grass to the river. Mainward chose it, just before the

sickness came, because it was pretty. This was altogether an inadequate

Sanders nodded slowly. "Why did you not send for me?"



For a moment the squatting figure made no reply, then he rose and

stretched himself.



"Master," he said, speaking in Arabic--which is a language which allows

of nice distinctions--"this man was happy; he walked in the Forest of

Happy Thoughts; why should I call him back to a land where there was

neither sunshine nor happiness, but only night and pain and sickness?"



"You're a philosopher," said Sanders irritably.



"I am a follower of the Prophet," said Abiboo, the Kano boy; "and all

things are according to God's wisdom."









  CHAPTER VIII.



  THE AKASAVAS.





You who do not understand how out of good evil may arise must take your

spade to some virgin grassland, untouched by the hand of man from the

beginning of time. Here is soft, sweet grass, and never a sign of

nettle, or rank, evil weed. It is as God made it. Turn the soil with

your spade, intent on improving His handiwork, and next season--weeds,

nettles, lank creeping things, and coarse-leafed vegetation cover the

ground.



Your spade has aroused to life the dormant seeds of evil, germinated the

ugly waste life that all these long years has been sleeping out of

sight--in twenty years, with careful cultivation, you may fight down the

weeds and restore the grassland, but it takes a lot of doing.



Your intentions may have been the best in disturbing the primal sod; you

may have had views of roses flourishing where grass was; the result is

very much the same.



I apply this parable to the story of a missionary and his work. The

missionary was a good man, though of the wrong colour. He had large

ideas on his duty to his fellows; he was inspired by the work of his

cloth in another country; but, as Sanders properly said, India is not

Africa.



Kenneth McDolan came to Mr. Commissioner Sanders with a letter of

introduction from the new Administration.



Sanders was at "chop" one blazing morning when his servant, who was also




"And what do you make of all this?" asked Sanders. He was standing on

his broad stoep, and before him was the spy, a lithe young man, in the

uniform of a sergeant of Houssa Police.



"Master, it is the secret society, and they go to make a great killing,"

said the sergeant.



The Commissioner paced the verandah with his head upon his breast, his

hands clasped behind his back.



These secret societies he knew well enough, though his territories had

been free of them. He knew their mushroom growth; how they rose from

nothingness with rituals and practices ready-made. He knew their

influence up and down the Liberian coast; he had some knowledge of the

"silent ones" of Nigeria, and had met the "white faces" in the Kassai.

And now the curse had come to his territory. It meant war, the upsetting

of twenty years' work--the work of men who died and died joyfully, in

the faith that they had brought peace to the land--it meant the

undermining of all his authority.



He turned to Abiboo.



"Take the steamer," he said, "and go quickly to the Ochori country,

telling Bosambo, the chief, that I will come to him--the palaver is

finished." He knew he could depend upon Bosambo if the worst came.



In the days of waiting he sent a long message to the Administration,

which lived in ease a hundred miles down the coast. He had a land wire

running along the seashore, and when it worked it was a great blessing.

Fortunately it was in good order now, but there had been times when

wandering droves of elephants had pulled up the poles and twisted a mile

or so of wire into a hopeless tangle.



The reply to his message came quickly.



    "Take extreme steps to wipe out society. If necessary arrest

    Tigili. I will support you with four hundred men and a gunboat;

    prefer you should arrange the matter without fuss.



      "Administration."



Sanders took a long walk by the sea to think out the situation and the

robe of panther skin thrown about his shoulders, he was naked.



There was a palaver house at the end of the village, a thatched little

wattle hut perched on a tiny hill, and the Lord Elebi gathered there his

captains and the chief of the village. He made a speech.



"_Cala, cala_," he began--and it means "long ago," and is a famous

opening to speeches--"before the white man came, and when the Arabi came

down from the northern countries to steal women and ivory, the people of

the Secret River buried their 'points' in a Place of Devils. Their women

they could not bury, so they lost them. Now all the people of the Secret

River are dead. The Arabi killed some, Bula Matadi killed others, but

the sickness killed most of all. Where their villages were the high

grass has grown, and in their gardens only the weaver bird speaks. Yet I

know of this place, for there came to me a vision and a voice that

said----"



The rest of the speech from the European standpoint was pure blasphemy,

because Elebi had had the training of a lay preacher, and had an easy

delivery.



When he had finished, the chief of the village of Tambangu spoke. It was

a serious discourse on devils. There was no doubt at all that in the

forest where the _cach_ was there was a veritable stronghold of

devildom. Some had bad faces and were as tall as the gum-trees--taller,

for they used whole trees for clubs; some were small, so small that they

travelled on the wings of bees, but all were very potent, very terrible,

and most effective guardians of buried treasure. Their greatest

accomplishment lay in leading astray the traveller: men went into the

forest in search of game or copal or rubber, and never came back,

because there were a thousand ways in and no way out.



Elebi listened gravely.



"Devils of course there are," he said, "including the Devil, the Old

One, who is the enemy of God. I have had much to do with the casting out

of devils--in my holy capacity as a servant of the Word. Of the lesser


nice girl you used to rave about when you first came out."



Young Ludley went red under his tan.



"Look here, chief!" he said, half angrily, half apologetically, "you're

surely not going to take any notice--you know it's the sort of thing

that's done in black countries--oh, damn it all, you're not going to act

as censor over my morals, are you?"



Sanders looked at the youth coldly.



"Your morals aren't worth worrying about," he said truthfully. "You

could be the most depraved devil in the world--which I'll admit you

aren't--and I should not trouble to reform you. No. It's the morals of

my cannibals that worry me. Home you go, my son; get married, _crescit

sub pondere virtus_--you'll find the translation in the foreign phrase

department of any respectable dictionary. As to the sort of things that

are done in black countries, they don't do them in our black

countries--monkey tricks of that sort are good enough for the Belgian

Congo, or for Togoland, but they aren't good enough for this little

strip of wilderness."



Ludley went home.



He did not tell anybody the real reason why he had come home, because it

would not have sounded nice. He was a fairly decent boy, as boys of his

type go, and he said nothing worse about Sanders than that he was a

woman-hater.



The scene that followed his departure shows how little the white mind

differs from the black in its process of working. For, after seeing his

assistant safely embarked on a homeward-bound boat, Sanders went up the

river to Isisi, and there saw a woman who was called M'Lino.



The average black woman is ugly of face, but beautiful of figure, but

M'Lino was no ordinary woman, as you shall learn. The Isisi people, who

keep extraordinary records in their heads, the information being handed

from father to son, say that M'Lino came from an Arabi family, and

certainly if a delicately-chiselled nose, a refinement of lip, prove

anything, they prove M'Lino came from no pure Bantu stock.



She came to Sanders when he sent for her, alert, suspicious, very much

lover, the people have cast me forth," she said. "Every hand is against

me, and if I stay in this country I shall die."



"Well?" said Sanders.



"So I will go with you, until you reach the Sangar River, which leads to

the Congo. I have brothers there."



"All this may be true," said Sanders dispassionately; "on the other

hand, I know that your heart is filled with hate because I have taken

two men from you, and hanged a third. Nevertheless, you shall come with

us as far as the Sangar River, but you shall not touch the 'chop' of my

men, nor shall you speak with them."



She nodded and left him, and Sanders issued orders for her treatment.



In the middle of the night Abiboo, who, in addition to being Sanders'

servant, was a sergeant of the Houssas, came to Sanders' tent, and the

Commissioner jumped out of bed and mechanically reached for his Express.



"Leopards?" he asked briefly.



"Master," said Sergeant Abiboo, "it is the woman M'Lino--she is a

witch."



"Sergeant," said the exasperated Sanders, "if you wake me up in the

middle of the night with that sort of talk, I will break your infernal

head."



"Be that as it may, master," said the sergeant stolidly, "she is a

witch, for she has talked with my men and done many wonderful

things--such as causing them to behold their children and far-away

scenes."



"Have I an escort of babies?" asked Sanders despairingly. "I wish," he

went on, with quiet savageness, "I had chosen Kroomen or Bushmen"--the

sergeant winced--"or the mad people of the Isisi River, before I took a

half-company of the King's Houssas."



The sergeant gulped down the insult, saying nothing.



"Bring the woman to me," said Sanders. He scrambled into his clothing,

and lit his tent lantern.



After a while he heard the pattering of bare feet, and the girl came

into his tent, and regarded him quietly.



"M'Lino," said Sanders, "I told you that you were not to speak with my



"Old man," he said, "how many years have you to live?"



"Master," said the old man, "that is for you to say."



Sanders scratched his chin reflectively, and the old man watched him

with fear in his eyes.



"You will go to Bosambo, chief of the Ochori, telling him I have sent

you, and you shall till his garden, and carry his water until you die,"

said Sanders.



"I am so old that that will be soon," said the old man.



"If you were younger it would be sooner," said Sanders. "As for your

son, we will wait until the morning."



The Houssas in the background marched the younger man to the camp

Sanders had formed down river--the boat that had passed had been

intended to deceive a chief under suspicion--and in the morning, when

the news came that the child was dead--whether from shock, or injury, or

exposure, Sanders did not trouble to inquire--the son of the chief was

hanged.



I tell these stories of Sanders of the River, that you may grasp the

type of man he was and learn something of the work he had to do. If he

was quick to punish, he acted in accordance with the spirit of the

people he governed, for they had no memory; and yesterday, with its

faults, its errors and its teachings, was a very long time ago, and a

man resents an unjust punishment for a crime he has forgotten.



It is possible to make a bad mistake, but Sanders never made one, though

he was near to doing so once.



Sanders was explaining his point of view in regard to natives to

Professor Sir George Carsley, when that eminent scientist arrived

unexpectedly at headquarters, having been sent out by the British

Government to study tropical disease at first hand.



Sir George was a man of some age, with a face of exceptional pallor and

a beard that was snowy white.



"There was a newspaper man who said I treated my people like dogs," said

Sanders slowly, for he was speaking in English, a language that was

the extemporised operating-table.



"Professor," he said gently, and the madman looked at him with a puzzled

frown.



"You are interrupting the clinic," he said testily; "I am

demonstrating----"



"I know, sir."



Sanders took his arm, and Sir George Carsley, a great scientist,

consulting surgeon to St. Mark's Hospital, London, and the author of

many books on tropical diseases, went with him like a child.



       *     *     *     *     *









  CHAPTER XII.



  THE LONELY ONE.





Mr. Commissioner Sanders had lived so long with native people that he

had absorbed not a little of their simplicity. More than this, he had

acquired the uncanny power of knowing things which he would not and

could not have known unless he were gifted with the prescience which is

every aboriginal's birthright.



He had sent three spies into the Isisi country--which lies a long way

from headquarters and is difficult of access--and after two months of

waiting they came to him in a body, bearing good news.



This irritated Sanders to an unjustifiable degree.



"Master, I say to you that the Isisi are quiet," protested one of the

spies; "and there is no talk of war."



"H'm!" said Sanders, ungraciously. "And you?"



He addressed the second spy.



"Lord," said the man, "I went into the forest, to the border of the

land, and there is no talk of war. Chiefs and headmen told me this."



"Truly you are a great spy," scoffed Sanders; "and how came you to the

chiefs and headmen? And how did they greet you? 'Hail! secret spy of

Sandi'? Huh!"



He dismissed the men with a wave of his hand, and putting on his helmet

went down to the Houssa lines, where the blue-coated soldiers gambled in

the shade of their neat white barracks.



The Houssa captain was making palatable medicine with the aid of a book


people.



"What man are you?" he asked.



"Lord," said Imgani, "I am of a strange people--the N'Gombi."



"That is a lie," said the slaver, "for you have not the face marks of

the N'Gombi; you are a half-bred Arab," and he addressed him in Arabic.



Imgani shook his head.



"He does not understand," said the slaver to his lieutenant; "find out

where this man's hut is; one night we will take him, for he is worth

money."



He spoke in Arabic, and his subordinate nodded.



When the slaver came again three men visited Imgani's house, but he was

hunting, and he was hunting every time the long boats came by night to

O'Fasi.



       *     *     *     *     *



Sanders did not go to O'Fasi for six months, during which time, it

should be emphasised, nothing happened which by any stretch of

imagination could be held to justify any loss of prestige.



He was due to make his half-yearly visit to the Isisi. The crops had

been good, the fish plentiful, the rains gentle, and there had been no

sickness. All these facts you may bear in mind.



One morning, when swirls of grey mist looped from tree to tree and the

east was growing grey, Imgani came back from the forest bearing on his

shoulders all that was material of a small buck which he had snared in

the night.



When he saw a little fire before his hut and a man squatting chin on

knee, he twirled those spears of his cheerfully and went on, for he was

afraid of no man.



"Is the world so full of people that you come to disturb my loneliness?"

he asked. "I have a thought that I shall kill you and fry your heart,

for I do not like to see you sitting by a fire before my hut."



He said all this with a ferocious mien, and the man before the fire



At two o'clock in the morning he looked at his watch, picked up the

lantern, and walked aft.



He picked a way over sleeping men until he came to that part of the deck

where a Houssa squatted with loaded carbine watching the two prisoners.





He stirred them gently with his foot, and they sat up blinking at his

light.



"You must tell me some more," he said. "How came this bad ju-ju to your

land?"



The man he addressed looked up at him.



"Lord, how comes rain or wind?" he said. "It was a sudden thought

amongst the people. There were certain rites and certain dances, and we

chopped a man; then we all painted our faces with camwood, and the

maidens said 'Kill!'"



Sanders could be very patient.



"I am as your father and your mother," he said. "I carry you in my arms;

when the waters came up and destroyed your gardens I came with manioc

and salt and saved you; when the sickness came I brought white men who

scraped your arms and put magic in your blood; I have made peace, and

your wives are safe from M'Gombi and Isisi folk, yet you are for killing

me."



The other nodded.



"That is true talk, master--but such is the way of ju-jus. They are very

High Things, and do not remember."



Sanders was worried; this matter was out of his reach. "What said the

ju-ju?"



"Lord, it said very clearly, speaking through the mouth of an old man,

M'fabaka of Begeli----"



"M'fabaka of Begeli?" repeated Sanders softly, and noted the name for a

speedy hanging.



"This old man saw a vision, and in this vision, which he saw with great

pain and foaming at the mouth and hot eyeballs, he saw white men slain

by black men and their houses burnt."



"When was this?"



"When the moon was full"--six days ago, thought Sanders--"and he saw a

great king with many legions marching through the land making all white


alarums--all these were in the days' work--but Sanders worried about the

Lulungo, because of their general badness, and because of all his

people, Isisi, Ikeli, Akasava, and Ochori, who hated the Lulungo folk

with a deep-rooted hatred. In his own heart, Sanders knew that war could

only be postponed, and so advised London, receiving in reply, from an

agitated Under-Secretary in Whitehall, the urgent request that the

postponement should cover and extend beyond the conclusion of "the

present financial year--for heaven's sake!"



They had a proverb up in the Lulungo district--three days' march beyond

the Akasava--and it is to this effect: "When a man hath a secret enemy

and cannot find him, pull down his own hut and search among the dbris."

This is a cumbersome translation. There is another proverb which says,

"Because of the enemy who lives in the shadow of your hut"; also another

which says, "If you cannot find your enemy, kill your dearest friend."

The tendency of all these proverbs is to show that the Lulungo people

took a gloomy view of life, and were naturally suspicious.



Sanders had a cook of the Lulungo tribe, down at M'piti--which model

city served as Mr. Commissioner's headquarters. He was a wanderer, and

by way of being a cosmopolitan, having travelled as far north as Dacca,

and as far south as Banana--and presumably up the Congo to Matadi. When

he came to M'piti, applying for work, he was asked his name and replied

in the "English" of the Coast:



"Master, dey one call me Sixpence all'time. I make 'um cook fine; you

look 'um for better cook, you no find 'um--savvy."



"And what," said Sanders, in the Lulungo dialect, "what mongrel talk do

you call this?"



"Master, it is English," said the abashed native.



"It is monkey talk," said Sanders, cruelly; "the talk of krooboys and

half-bred sailors who have no language. What are you called by your

people?"



"Lataki, master," said the cook.



"So shall you be called," said Sanders. "Further, you shall speak no

language but your own, and your pay will be ten shillings a month."

