the one might be frugal and the other lonely, and as I, Gulliver Jones,  the poor foresaid Navy lieutenant, with the honoured stars of our  Republic on my collar, and an undeserved snub from those in authority  rankling in my heart, picked my way homeward by a short cut through the  dismalness of a New York slum I longed for steak and stout, slippers  and a pipe, with all the pathetic keenness of a troubled soul.    It was a wild, black kind of night, and the weirdness of it showed up  as I passed from light to light or crossed the mouths of dim alleys  leading Heaven knows to what infernal dens of mystery and crime even in  this latter-day city of ours.  The moon was up as far as the church  steeples; large vapoury clouds scudding across the sky between us and  her, and a strong, gusty wind, laden with big raindrops snarled angrily  round corners and sighed in the parapets like strange voices talking  about things not of human interest.    It made no difference to me, of course.  New York in this year of grace  is not the place for the supernatural be the time never so fit for  witch-riding and the night wind in the chimney-stacks sound never so  much like the last gurgling cries of throttled men.  No! the world was  very matter-of-fact, and particularly so to me, a poor younger son with  five dollars in my purse by way of fortune, a packet of unpaid bills in  my breastpocket, and round my neck a locket with a portrait therein of  that dear buxom, freckled, stub-nosed girl away in a little southern  seaport town whom I thought I loved with a magnificent affection.  Gods! I had not even touched the fringe of that affliction.    Thus sauntering along moodily, my chin on my chest and much too  absorbed in reflection to have any nice appreciation of what was  happening about me, I was crossing in front of a dilapidated block of  houses, dating back nearly to the time of the Pilgrim Fathers, when I  had a vague consciousness of something dark suddenly sweeping by me--a  thing like a huge bat, or a solid shadow, if such a thing could be, and 
aloud as he did so the words--    "Know none; know some; know little; know morel" again and again; and  the strangest part of it is that as he spoke I did know at first a  little, then more, and still more, by swift accumulation, of his speech  and meaning.  In fact, when presently he suddenly laid a hand over my  eyes and then let go of my head with a pleasantly put question as to  how I felt, I had no difficulty whatever in answering him in his own  tongue, and rose from the ground as one gets from a hair-dresser's  chair, with a vague idea of looking round for my hat and offering him  his fee.    "My word, sir!" I said, in lisping Martian, as I pulled down my cuffs  and put my cravat straight, "that was a quick process.  I once heard of  a man who learnt a language in the moments he gave each day to having  his boots blacked; but this beats all.  I trust I was a docile pupil?"    "Oh, fairly, sir," answered the soft, musical voice of the strange  being by me; "but your head is thick and your brain tough.  I could  have taught another in half the time."    "Curiously enough," was my response, "those are almost the very words  with which my dear old tutor dismissed me the morning I left college.  Never mind, the thing is done.  Shall I pay you anything?"    "I do not understand."    "Any honorarium, then?  Some people understand one word and not the  other."  But the boy only shook his head in answer.    Strangely enough, I was not greatly surprised all this time either at  the novelty of my whereabouts or at the hypnotic instruction in a new  language just received.  Perhaps it was because my head still spun too  giddily with that flight in the old rug for much thought; perhaps  because I did not yet fully realise the thing that had happened.  But,  anyhow, there is the fact, which, like so many others in my narrative,  must, alas! remain unexplained for the moment.  The rug, by the way, 
"Why?"  Was ever such a question put to a sane mortal before?  I stared  at that ambiguous thing before me, and then, a little wroth to be  played with, growled out something about Martians being all drunk or  mad.    "'Tis you yourself are one or other," said that individual, by this  time pink with anger, "and if you think because I am what I am you can  safely taunt me, you are wrong.  See!  I have a sting," and like a  thwarted child my companion half drew from the folds of the yellow  tunic-dress the daintiest, most harmless-looking little dagger that was  ever seen.    "Oh, if it comes to that," I answered, touching the Navy scabbard still  at my hip, and regaining my temper at the sight of hers, "why, I have a  sting also--and twice as long as yours!  But in truth, An, let us not  talk of these things; if something in what I have said has offended  nice Martian scruples I am sorry, and will question no more, leaving my  wonder for time to settle."    "No," said the other, "it was my fault to be hasty of offence; I am not  so angered once a year.  But in truth your question moves us yellow  robes deeply.  Did you not really know that we who wear this saffron  tunic are slaves,--a race apart, despised by all."    "'Slaves,' no; how should I know it?"    "I thought you must understand a thing so fundamental, and it was that  thought which made your questions seem unkind.  But if indeed you have  come so far as not to understand even this, then let me tell you once  we of this garb were women--priestesses of the immaculate conceptions  of humanity; guardians of those great hopes and longings which die so  easily. And because we forgot our high station and took to aping  another sex the gods deserted and men despised us, giving us, in the  fierceness of their contempt, what we asked for.  We are the slave ants  of the nest, the work-bees of the hive, come, in truth, of those here  who still be men and women of a sort, but toilers only; unknown in 
great chamber with a purple tapestry across the entrance, and a square  arch leading to a flat terrace outside.    It was a glorious daybreak, making my heart light within me, the air  like new milk, and the colours of the sunrise lay purple and yellow in  bars across my room.  I yawned and stretched, then rising, wrapped a  silken quilt about me and went out into the flat terrace top, wherefrom  all the city could be seen stretched in an ivory and emerald patchwork,  with open, blue water on one side, and the Martian plain trending away  in illimitable distance upon the other.    Directly underneath in the great square at the bottom of Hath's palace  steps were gathered a concourse of people, brilliant in many-coloured  dresses.  They were sitting or lying about just as they might for all I  knew have done through the warm night, without much order, save that  where the black streaks of inlaid stone marked a carriageway across the  square none were stationed.  While I wondered what would bring so many  together thus early, there came a sound of flutes--for these people can  do nothing without piping like finches in a thicket in May--and from  the storehouses half-way over to the harbour there streamed a line of  carts piled high with provender.  Down came the teams attended by their  slaves, circling and wheeling into the open place, and as they passed  each group those lazy, lolling beggars crowded round and took the dole  they were too thriftless to earn themselves.  It was strange to see how  listless they were about the meal, even though Providence itself put it  into their hands; to note how the yellow-girted slaves scudded amongst  them, serving out the loaves, themselves had grown, harvested, and  baked; slipping from group to group, rousing, exhorting, administering  to a helpless throng that took their efforts without thought or thanks.    I stood there a long time, one foot upon the coping and my chin upon my  hand, noting the beauty of the ruined town and wondering how such a  feeble race as that which lay about, breakfasting in the limpid  sunshine, could have come by a city like this, or kept even the ruins 
everywhere--ask them if it is horrible."    This made me melancholy, and somehow set me thinking of the friends  immeasurably distant I had left but yesterday.    What were they doing?  Did they miss me?  I was to have called for my  pay this afternoon, and tomorrow was to have run down South to see that  freckled lady of mine.  What would she think of my absence?  What would  she think if she knew where I was?  Gods, it was too mad, too absurd! I  thrust my hands into my pockets in fierce desperation, and there they  clutched an old dance programme and an out-of-date check for a New York  ferry-boat.  I scowled about on that sunny, helpless people, and laying  my hand bitterly upon my heart felt in the breast-pocket beneath a  packet of unpaid Boston tailors' bills and a note from my landlady  asking if I would let her aunt do my washing while I was on shore. Oh!  what would they all think of me?  Would they brand me as a deserter, a  poltroon, and a thief, letting my name presently sink down in shame and  mystery in the shadowy realm of the forgotten?  Dreadful thoughts! I  would think no more.    Maybe An had marked my melancholy, for presently she led me to a stall  where in fantastic vases wines of sorts I have described before were  put out for all who came to try them.  There was medicine here for  every kind of dulness--not the gross cure which earthly wine effects,  but so nicely proportioned to each specific need that one could  regulate one's debauch to a hairbreadth, rising through all the gamut  of satisfaction, from the staid contentment coming of that flask there  to the wild extravagances of the furthermost vase.  So my stripling  told me, running her finger down the line of beakers carved with  strange figures and cased in silver, each in its cluster of little  attendant drinking-cups, like-coloured, and waiting round on the white  napkins as the shore boats wait to unload a cargo round the sides of a  merchant vessel.    "And what," I said, after curiously examining each liquor in turn, 
young man should learn," I answered lightly; but then, seeing there was  nothing save the most innocent friendliness in those hazel eyes, I went  on, "but that stern rule may admit of variance.  Only, as it chances, I  have just supped at the public expense.  If, instead, you would be a  sailor's sweetheart for an hour, and take me to this show of  yours--your princess's benefit, or whatever it is--I shall be obliged;  my previous guide is hull down over the horizon, and I am clean out of  my reckoning in this crowd."    By way of reply, the little lady, light as an elf, took me by the  fingertips, and, gleefully skipping forward, piloted me through the  mazes of her city until we came out into the great square fronting on  the palace, which rose beyond it like a white chalk cliff in the dull  light. Not a taper showed anywhere round its circumference, but a  mysterious kind of radiance like sea phosphorescence beamed from the  palace porch. All was in such deathlike silence that the nails in my  "ammunition" boots made an unpleasant clanking as they struck on the  marble pavement; yet, by the uncertain starlight, I saw, to my  surprise, the whole square was thronged with Martians, all facing  towards the porch, as still, graven images, and as voiceless, for once,  as though they had indeed been marble. It was strange to see them  sitting there in the twilight, waiting for I knew not what, and my  friend's voice at my elbow almost startled me as she said, in a  whisper, "The princess knows you are in the crowd, and desires you to  go up upon the steps near where she will be."    "Who brought her message?" I asked, gazing vaguely round, for none had  spoken to us for an hour or more.    "No one," said my companion, gently pushing me up an open way towards  the palace steps left clear by the sitting Martians.  "It came direct  from her to me this minute."    "But how?" I persisted.    "Nay," said the girl, "if we stop to talk like this we shall not be  placed before she comes, and thus throw a whole year's knowledge out." 
this passage-top where they are writ large I make them out to say,  'ONLY THE MAN WHO HAS DIED MANY TIMES BEGINS TO LIVE.'"    "A pregnant passage!  Turn another page, and try again; I have an  inkling of the book already."    "'Tis poor, silly stuff," said the girl, slipping a hand covertly into  my own.  "Why will you make me read it?  I have a book on pomatums  worth twice as much as this."    "Nevertheless, dip in again, dear lady.  What says the next heading?"  And with a little sigh at the heaviness of her task, Heru read out:  "SOMETIMES THE GODS THEMSELVES FORGET THE ANSWERS TO THEIR OWN RIDDLES."    "Lady, I knew it!    "All this is still preliminary to the great matter of the book, but the  mutterings of the priest who draws back the curtains of the shrine--and  here, after the scribe has left these two yellow pages blank as though  to set a space of reverence between himself and what comes next--here  speaks the truth, the voice, the fact of all life."  But "Oh!  Jones,"  she said, turning from the dusty pages and clasping her young,  milk-warm hands over mine and leaning towards me until her blushing  cheek was near to my shoulder and the incense of her breath upon me.  "Oh!  Gulliver Jones," she said.  "Make me read no more; my soul  revolts from the task, the crazy brown letters swim before my eyes.  Is  there no learning near at hand that would be pleasanter reading than  this silly book of yours? What, after all," she said, growing bolder at  the sound of her own voice, "what, after all, is the musty reticence of  gods to the whispered secret of a maid?  Jones, splendid stranger for  whom all men stand aside and women look over shoulders, oh, let me be  your book!" she whispered, slipping on to my knee and winding her arms  round my neck till, through the white glimmer of her single vest, I  could feel her heart beating against mine.  "Newest and dearest of  friends, put by this dreary learning and look in my eyes; is there 
creation in such circumstances.    And now at last it was my turn.  The great urn, blazing golden, through  its rosy covering, was in front, and all eyes on me.  I clapped a  sunburnt hand upon its top as though I would take all remaining in it  to myself and stared round at that company--only her herself I durst  not look at!  Then, with a beating heart, I lifted a corner of the web  and slipped my hand into the dark inside, muttering to myself as I did  so, "A golden pool, and a silver fish, and a line no thicker than a  hair." I touched in turn twenty perplexing tablets and was no whit the  wiser, and felt about the sides yet came to nothing, groping here and  there with a rising despair, until as my fingers, still damp and fine  of touch, went round the sides a second time, yes! there was something,  something in the hollow of the fluting, a thought, a thread, and yet  enough.  I took it unseen, lifting it with infinite forbearance, and  the end was weighted, the other tablets slipped and rattled as from  their midst, hanging to that one fine virgin hair, up came a pearly  billet.  I doubted no longer, but snapped the thread, and showed the  tablet, heard Heru's name, read from it amongst the soft applause of  that luxurious company with all the unconcern I could muster.    There she was in a moment, lip to lip with me, before them all, her  eyes more than ever like planets from her native skies, and only the  quick heave of her bosom, slowly subsiding like a ground swell after a  storm, remaining to tell that even Martian blood could sometimes beat  quicker than usual!  She sat down in her place by me in the simplest  way, and soon everything was as merry as could be.  The main meal came  on now, and as far as I could see those Martian gallants had extremely  good appetites, though they drank at first but little, wisely  remembering the strength of their wines.  As for me, I ate of fishes  that never swam in earthly seas, and of strange fowl that never flapped 
least a drier bed than this of mine, and at that thought, turning over,  I found all my muscles as stiff as iron, the sinews of my neck and  forearms a mass of agonies and no more fit to swim me to those reedy  swamps, which now, as pain and hunger began to tell, seemed to wear the  aspects of paradise.    With a groan I dropped back upon my raft and watched the islands  slipping by, while over my feet the southern sky darkened to purple.  There was no help there, but glancing round away on the left and a few  furlongs from me, I noticed on the surface of the water two converging  strands of brightness, an angle the point of which seemed to be coming  towards me.  Nearer it came and nearer, right across my road, until I  could see a black dot at the point, a head presently developed, then as  we approached the ears and antlers of a swimming stag.  It was a huge  beast as it loomed up against the glow, bigger than any mortal stag  ever was--the kind of fellow-traveller no one would willingly accost,  but even if I had wished to get out of its path I had no power to do so.    Closer and closer we came, one of us drifting helplessly, and the other  swimming strongly for the islands.  When we were about a furlong apart  the great beast seemed to change its course, mayhap it took the  wreckage on which I floated for an outlying shoal, something on which  it could rest a space in that long swim.  Be this as it may, the beast  came hurtling down on me lip deep in the waves, a mighty brown head  with pricked ears that flicked the water from them now and then, small  bright eyes set far back, and wide palmated antlers on a mighty  forehead, like the dead branches of a tree.  What that Martian mountain  elk had hoped for can only be guessed, what he met with was a tangle of  floating finery carrying a numbed traveller on it, and with a snort of  disappointment he turned again.    It was a poor chance, but better than nothing, and as he turned I tried 
called from her the natural observation that we must be good sailors  "up aloft" since we knew so much about cordage, then we parted.    She had seen nothing of the woodmen, though she had heard they had been  to Seth and thought, from some niceties of geographical calculation  which I could not follow, they would have crossed to the north, as just  stated, of her island.  There she told me, with much surprise at my  desire for the information, how I might, by following the forest track  to the westward coast, make my way to a fishing village, where they  would give me a canoe and direct me, since such was my extraordinary  wish, to the place where, if anywhere, the wild men had touched on  their way home.    She filled my wallet with dried honey-cakes and my mouth with sugar  plums from her little store, then down on her knees went that poor waif  of a worn-out civilisation and kissed my hands in humble farewell, and  I, blushing to be so saluted, and after all but a sailor, got her by  the rosy fingers and lifted her up shoulder high, and getting one hand  under her chin and the other behind her head kissed her twice upon her  pretty cheeks; and so, I say, we parted.        CHAPTER X    Off into the forest I went, feeling a boyish elation to be so free nor  taking heed or count of the reckless adventure before me.  The Martian  weather for the moment was lovely and the many-coloured grass lush and  soft under foot.  Mile after mile I went, heeding the distance lightly,  the air was so elastic.  Now pressing forward as the main interest of  my errand took the upper hand, and remembrance of poor Heru like a  crushed white flower in the red grip of those cruel ravishers came upon  me, and then pausing to sigh with pleasure or stand agape--forgetful  even of her--in wonder of the unknown loveliness about me.    And well might I stare!  Everything in that forest was wonderful!  There were plants which turned from colour to colour with the varying 
An?  Where those wild men who had taken the princess from us?  Lastly,  but not least, where was I?    All the first stars of the Martian sky were strange to me, and my boat  whirling round and round on the current confused what little geography  I might otherwise have retained.  It was a cheerless look out, and  again and again I cursed my folly for coming on such a fool's errand as  I sat, chin in hand, staring at a landscape that grew more and more  depressing every mile.  To go on looked like destruction, to go back  was almost impossible without a guide; and while I was still wondering  which of the two might be the lesser evil, the stream I was on turned a  corner, and in a moment we were upon water which ran with swift, oily  smoothness straight for the snow-ranges now beginning to loom  unpleasantly close ahead.    By this time the night was coming on apace, the last of the  evil-looking birds had winged its way across the red sunset glare, and  though it was clear enough in mid-river under the banks, now steep and  unclimbable, it was already evening.    And with the darkness came a wondrous cold breath from off the  ice-fields, blowing through my lowland wrappings as though they were  but tissue. I munched a bit of honey-cake, took a cautious sip of wine,  and though I will not own I was frightened, yet no one will deny that  the circumstances were discouraging.    Standing up in the frail canoe and looking around, at the second glance  an object caught my eye coming with the stream, and rapidly overtaking  me on a strong sluice of water.  It was a raft of some sort, and  something extra-ordinarily like a sitting Martian on it!  Nearer and  nearer it came, bobbing to the rise and fall of each wavelet with the  last icy sunlight touching it up with reds and golds, nearer and nearer  in the deadly hush of that forsaken region, and then at last so near it  showed quite plainly on the purple water, a raft with some one sitting  under a canopy. 
but he never resented it. Had I killed him? How limp and cold he was!  And then all of a sudden an uneasy feeling came upon me.  I reached  out, and throwing a handful of dried stuff upon the embers the fire  danced gaily up into the air, and the blaze showed me I was savagely  holding down to the gravel and kneeling on the chest of that long-dead  king from my grotto wall!    It was the man out of the ice without a doubt.  There was the very  niche he had fallen from under the influence of the fire heat, the very  recess, exactly in his shape in every detail, whence he had stood  gazing into vacuity all those years.  I left go my hold, and after the  flutter in my heart had gone down, apologetically set him up against  the wall of the cavern whence he had fallen; then built up the fire  until twirling flames danced to the very roof in the blue light of  dawn, and hobgoblin shadows leapt and capered about us.  Then once more  I sat down on the opposite side of the blaze, resting my chin upon my  hands, and stared into the frozen eyes of that grim stranger, who, with  his chin upon his knees, stared back at me with irresistible,  remorseless steadfastness.    He was as fresh as if he had died but yesterday, yet by his clothing  and something in his appearance, which was not that of the Martian of  to-day, I knew he might be many thousand years old.  What things he had  seen, what wonders he knew!  What a story might be put into his mouth  if I were a capable writer gifted with time and imagination instead of  a poor outcast, ill-paid lieutenant whose literary wit is often taxed  hardly to fill even a log-book entry!  I stared at him so long and  hard, and he at me through the blinking flames, that again I dozed--and  dozed--and dozed again until at last when I woke in good earnest it was  daylight.    By this time hunger was very aggressive.  The fire was naught but a  circlet of grey ashes; the dead king, still sitting against the 
human difference. "The truth, O dweller in blue shadows of primordial  ice, is," said the most intelligent of the Thither folk as we sat over  fried deer-steak in his hut that evening, "we who are MEN, not  Peri-zad, not overstayed fairies like those you have been amongst, are  newcomers here on this shore.  We came but a few generations ago from  where the gold curtains of the sun lie behind the westward pine-trees,  and as we came we drove, year by year, those fays, those spent  triflers, back before us.  All this land was theirs once, and more and  more towards our old home.  You may still see traces of harbours dug  and cities built thousands of years ago, when the Hither folk were  living men and women--not their shadows. The big water outside stops us  for a space, but," he added, laughing gruffly and taking a draught of a  strong beer he had been heating by the fire, "King Ar-hap has their  pretty noses between his fingers; he takes tribute and girls while he  gets ready--they say he is nearly ready this summer, and if he is, it  will not be much of an excuse he will need to lick up the last of those  triflers, those pretences of manhood."    Then we fell to talking of Ar-hap, his subjects and town, and I learned  the tides had swept me a long way to the northward of the proper route  between the capitals of the two races, that day they carried me into  the Dead-Men's Ice, as these entertainers of mine called the northern  snows. To get back to the place previously aimed at, where the woodmen  road came out on the seashore, it was necessary to go either by boat, a  roundabout way through a maze of channels, "as tangled as the grass  roots in autumn"; or, secondly, by a couple of days' marching due  southward across the base of the great peninsula we were on, and so  strike blue water again at the long-sought-for harbour.    As I lay dozing and dreaming on a pile of strange furs in the corner of  the hut that evening I made up my mind for the land journey tomorrow, 
far away, whereat he laughed gloriously again.  The greater the  commonplace the larger his joy. The humblest story, hardly calculated  to impress a griffin between watches on the main-deck, was a  masterpiece of wit to that gentle savage; and when I "took off" the  tricks and foibles of some of my superiors--Heaven forgive me for such  treason!--he listened with the exquisite open-mouthed delight of one  who wanders in a brand-new world of mirth.    We drank and laughed over that strong beer till the little owls outside  raised their voice in combined accord, and then the woodman, shaking  the last remnant of his sleepy wits together, and giving a reproachful  look at me for finally passing him the gourd empty to the last drop,  rose, threw a fur on a pile of dead grass at one side of the hut, and  bid me sleep, "for his brain was giddy with the wonders of the  incredible and ludicrous sphere which I had lately inhabited."    Slowly the fire died away; slowly the quivering gold and black  arabesques on the walls merged in a red haze as the sticks dropped into  tinder, and the great black outline of the hairy monster who had thrown  himself down by the embers rose up the walls against that flush like  the outline of a range of hills against a sunset glow.  I listened  drowsily for a space to his snoring and the laughing answer of the  brook outside, and then that ambrosial sleep which is the gentle  attendant of hardship and danger touched my tired eyelids, and I, too,  slept.    My friend was glum the next morning, as they who stay over-long at the  supper flagon are apt to be.  He had been at work an hour on his  bark-heaps when I came out into the open, and it was only by a good  deal of diplomacy and some material help in sorting his faggots that he  was got into a better frame of mind.  I could not, however, trust his  mood completely, and as I did not want to end so jovial a friendship  with a quarrel, I hurried through our breakfast of dry bread, with  
Thus I, a sodden giant, led by those elfin torches, paced through the  city until we came to an open square with a great lumber of ruins in  the centre all marred and spoiled by vegetation; and here the lights  wavered, and went out by scores and hundreds, just as the petals drop  from spent flowers, while it seemed, though it may have been only wind  in the rank grass, that the air was full of most plaintive sighs as  each little lamp slipped into oblivion.    The big pile was a mass of fallen masonry, which, from the broken  pillars all about, might have been a palace or temple once.  I pushed  in, but it was as dark as Hades here, so, after struggling for a time  in a labyrinth of chambers, chose a sandy recess, with some dry herbage  by way of bedding in a corner, and there, thankful at least for  shelter, my night's wanderings came to an end and I coiled myself down,  ate a last handful of dry fruit, and, strange as it may seem, was soon  sleeping peacefully.    I dreamed that night that a woman, with a face as white as ivory, came  and bent over me.  She led a babe by either hand, while behind her were  scores of other ones, with lovely faces, but all as pale as the stars  themselves, who looked and sighed, but said nothing, and when they had  stared their fill, dropped out one by one, leaving a wonderful blank in  the monotony where they had been; but beyond that dream nothing  happened.    It was a fine morning when I woke again, and obviously broad day  outside, the sunshine coming down through cracks in the old palace  roof, and lying in golden pools on the floor with dazzling effect.    Rubbing my eyes and sitting up, it took me some time to get my senses  together, and at first an uneasy feeling possessed me that I was  somehow dematerialised and in an unreal world.  But a twinge of cramp  in my left arm, and a healthy sneeze, which frightened a score of bats  overhead nearly out of their senses, was reassuring on this point, and 
  How high, how high  Oh, ho, oh,  Oh, ho, oh.    the which was infinitely sleep-provoking if not a refrain of a high  intellectual order.    I shut my eyes as we pulled away from the wharfs of that nameless  emporium and picked a passage through a crowd of quaint shipping,  wondering where I was, and asking myself whether I was mentally rising  equal to my extraordinary surroundings, whether I adequately  appreciated the immensity of my remove from those other seas on which I  had last travelled, tiller-ropes in hand, piloting a captain's galley  from a wharf. Good heavens, what would my comrades on my ship say if  they could see me now steering a load of hairy savages up one of those  waterways which our biggest telescopes magnify but to the thickness of  an indication? No, I was not rising equal to the occasion, and could  not.  The human mind is of but limited capacity after all, and such  freaks of fortune are beyond its conception.  I knew I was where I was,  but I knew I should probably never get the chance of telling of it, and  that no one would ever believe me if I did, and I resigned myself to  the inevitable with sullen acquiescence, smothering the wonder that  might have been overwhelming in passing interests of the moment.    There is little to record of that voyage.  We passed through a fleet of  Ar-hap's warships, empty and at anchor in double line, serviceable  half-decked cutters, built of solid timber, not pumpkin rind it was  pleasant to notice, and then the town dropped away as we proceeded up a  stream about as broad as the Hudson at its widest, and profusely  studded with islands.  This water was bitterly salt and joined another  sea on the other side of the Martian continent.  Yet it had a  pronounced flow against us eastward, this tide running for three spring  months and being followed, I learned, as ocean temperatures varied, by  a flow in the opposite direction throughout the summer.    Just at present the current was so strong eastwards, the moisture 
dip in a pool, making, with its surrounding jungle of flowers, one of  the pleasantest things about the wood-king's forest citadel.  The very  earth seemed scorched and baking underfoot--and the pool was gone!  It  had run as dry as a limekiln; nothing remained of the pretty fall which  had fed it but a miserable trickle of drops from the cascade above.  Down beyond the town shone a gleam of water where the bitter canal  steamed and simmered in the first grey of the morning, but up here six  months of scorching drought could not have worked more havoc.  The very  leaves were dropping from the trees, and the luxuriant growths of the  day before looked as though a simoon had played upon them.    I staggered back in disgust, and found some show of official activity  about the palace.  It was the king's custom, it appeared, to hear  petitions and redress wrongs as soon after his return as possible, but  today the ceremony was to be cut short as his majesty was going out  with all his court to a neighbouring mountain to "pray away the comet,"  which by this time was causing dire alarm all through the city.    "Heaven's own particular blessing on his prayers, my friend," I said to  the man who told me this.  "Unless his majesty's orisons are fruitful,  we shall all be cooked like baked potatoes before nightfall, and though  I have faced many kinds of death, that is not the one I would choose by  preference.  Is there a chance of myself being heard at the throne?  Your peculiar climate tempts me to hurry up with my business and begone  if I may."    "Not only may you be heard, sir, but you are summoned.  The king has  heard of you somehow, and sent me to find and bring you into his  presence at once."    "So be it," I said, too hot to care what happened.  "I have no levee  dress with me.  I lost my luggage check some time ago, but if you will  wait outside I will be with you in a moment."    Hastily tidying myself up, and giving my hair a comb, as though just 
wild things of the woods slinking in for companionship, sagheaded and  frightened.  To me especially they came, until that last evening as I  staggered dying about the streets or sat staring into the remorseless  sky from the steps of Heru's prison house, all sorts of beasts drew  softly in and crowded about, whether I sat or moved, all asking for the  hope I had not to give them.    At another time this might have been embarrassing; then it seemed pure  commonplace.  It was a sight to see them slink in between the useless  showers, which fell like hot tears upon us--sleek panthers with lolling  tongues; russet-red wood dogs; bears and sloths from the dark arcades  of the remote forests, all casting themselves down gasping in the  palace shadows; strange deer, who staggered to the garden plots and lay  there heaving their lives out; mighty boars, who came from the river  marshes and silently nozzled a place amongst their enemies to die in!  Even the wolves came off the hills, and, with bloodshot eyes and  tongues that dripped foam, flung themselves down in my shadow.    All along the tall stockades apes sat sad and listless, and on the  roof-ridges storks were dying.  Over the branches of the trees, whose  leaves were as thin as though we had had a six months' drought, the  toucans and Martian parrots hung limp and fashionless like gaudy rags,  and in the courtyard ground the corn-rats came up from their tunnels in  the scorching earth to die, squeaking in scores along under the walls.    Our common sorrow made us as sociable as though I were Noah, and  Ar-hap's palace mound another Ararat.  Hour after hour I sat amongst  all these lesser beasts in the hot darkness, waiting for the end.  Every now and then the heavy clouds parted, changing the gloom to  sudden fiery daylight as the great red eye in the west looked upon us  through the crevice, and, taking advantage of those gleams, I would  reel across to where, under a spout leading from a dried rivulet, I had  placed a cup to collect the slow and tepid drops that were all now  coming down the reed for Heru. And as I went back each time with that 
"What is all that talking about?" growled a sleepy voice of authority  from the stern.    "Bow man, sir, says he can see a boat."    "And what does it matter if he can?  Are we to delay every time that  lazy ruffian spying a shadow makes it an excuse to stop to yawn and  scratch? Go on, you plankful of lubbers, or I'll give you something  worth thinking about!"  And joyfully, oh, so joyfully, we heard the  sullen dip of oars commence again.    Nothing more happened after that till the sun at length shone on the  little harbour town at the estuary mouth, making the masts of fishing  craft clustering there like a golden reed-bed against the cool, clean  blue of the sea beyond.    Right glad we were to see it, and keeping now in shadow of the banks,  made all haste while light was faint and mist hung about to reach the  town, finally pushing through the boats and gaining a safe hiding-place  without hostile notice before it was clear daylight.    Covering Heru up and knowing well all our chances of escape lay in  expedition, I went at once, in pursuance of a plan made during the  night, to the good dame at what, for lack of a better name, must still  continue to be called the fish-shop, and finding her alone, frankly  told her the salient points of my story.  When she learned I had  "robbed the lion of his prey" and taken his new wife singlehanded from  the dreaded Ar-hap her astonishment was unbounded.  Nothing would do  but she must look upon the princess, so back we went to the  hiding-place, and when Heru knew that on this woman depended our lives  she stepped ashore, taking the rugged Martian hand in her dainty  fingers and begging her help so sweetly that my own heart was moved,  and, thrusting hands in pocket, I went aside, leaving those two to  settle it in their own female way.    And when I looked back in five minutes, royal Seth had her arms round  the woman's neck, kissing the homely cheeks with more than imperial  fervour, so I knew all was well thus far, and stopped expectorating at 
boat on a secret waterway behind the palace whence flight to the main  river and so, far away inland, to another smaller but more peaceful  city of their race would be quite practical; and joyfully hearing this  news, I handed over to them the princess while I went to look for Hath.    And the search was not long.  Dashing into the banquet-hall, still  littered with the remains of a feast, and looking down its deserted  vistas, there at the farther end, on his throne, clad in the sombre  garments he affected, chin on hand, sedate in royal melancholy,  listening unmoved to the sack of his town outside, sat the prince  himself.  Strange, gloomy man, the great dead intelligence of his race  shining in his face as weird and out of place as a lonely sea beacon  fading to nothing before the glow of sunrise, never had he appeared so  mysterious as at that moment. Even in the heat of excitement I stared  at him in amazement, wishing in a hasty thought the confusion of the  past few weeks had given me opportunity to penetrate the recesses of  his mind, and therefrom retell you things better worth listening to  than all the incident of my adventures. But now there was no time to  think, scarce time to act.    "Hath!" I cried, rushing over to him, "wake up, your majesty.  The  Thither men are outside, killing and burning!"    "I know it."    "And the palace is on fire.  You can smell the reek even here."    "Yes."    "Then what are you going to do?"    "Nothing."    "My word, that is a fine proposition for a prince!  If you care nothing  for town or palace perhaps you will bestir yourself for Princess Heru."    A faint glimmer of interest rose upon the alabaster calm of his face at  that name, but it faded instantly, and he said quietly,    "The slaves will save her.  She will live.  I looked into the book of  her fate yesterday.  She will escape, and forget, and sit at another  marriage feast, and be a mother, and give the people yet one more 
