  DEDICATED TO HARRIET A. B. NEAL.      *       *       *       *       *      To My Readers      It's no use; no use at all. The children won't let me stop telling tales  of the Land of Oz. I know lots of other stories, and I hope to tell  them, some time or another; but just now my loving tyrants won't allow  me. They cry: "Oz--Oz! more about Oz, Mr. Baum!" and what can I do but  obey their commands?    This is Our Book--mine and the children's. For they have flooded me with  thousands of suggestions in regard to it, and I have honestly tried to  adopt as many of these suggestions as could be fitted into one story.    After the wonderful success of "Ozma of Oz" it is evident that Dorothy  has become a firm fixture in these Oz stories. The little ones all love  Dorothy, and as one of my small friends aptly states: "It isn't a real  Oz story without her." So here she is again, as sweet and gentle and  innocent as ever, I hope, and the heroine of another strange adventure.    There were many requests from my little correspondents for "more about  the Wizard." It seems the jolly old fellow made hosts of friends in the  first Oz book, in spite of the fact that he frankly acknowledged himself  "a humbug." The children had heard how he mounted into the sky in a  balloon and they were all waiting for him to come down again. So what  could I do but tell "what happened to the Wizard afterward"? You will  find him in these pages, just the same humbug Wizard as before.    There was one thing the children demanded which I found it impossible to  do in this present book: they bade me introduce Toto, Dorothy's little  black dog, who has many friends among my readers. But you will see, when  you begin to read the story, that Toto was in Kansas while Dorothy was 
home again."    The boy flicked the big, boney horse with his whip and looked  thoughtful. Then he started to say something to his little companion,  but before he could speak the buggy began to sway dangerously from side  to side and the earth seemed to rise up before them. Next minute there  was a roar and a sharp crash, and at her side Dorothy saw the ground  open in a wide crack and then come together again.    "Goodness!" she cried, grasping the iron rail of the seat. "What was  that?"    "That was an awful big quake," replied Zeb, with a white face. "It  almost got us that time, Dorothy."    The horse had stopped short, and stood firm as a rock. Zeb shook the  reins and urged him to go, but Jim was stubborn. Then the boy cracked  his whip and touched the animal's flanks with it, and after a low moan  of protest Jim stepped slowly along the road.    Neither the boy nor the girl spoke again for some minutes. There was a  breath of danger in the very air, and every few moments the earth would  shake violently. Jim's ears were standing erect upon his head and every  muscle of his big body was tense as he trotted toward home. He was not  going very fast, but on his flanks specks of foam began to appear and at  times he would tremble like a leaf.    The sky had grown darker again and the wind made queer sobbing sounds as  it swept over the valley.    Suddenly there was a rending, tearing sound, and the earth split into  another great crack just beneath the spot where the horse was standing.  With a wild neigh of terror the animal fell bodily into the pit, drawing  the buggy and its occupants after him.    Dorothy grabbed fast hold of the buggy top and the boy did the same. The  sudden rush into space confused them so that they could not think.    Blackness engulfed them on every side, and in breathless silence they  waited for the fall to end and crush them against jagged rocks or for 
But he paid no attention to her warning. He reached the edge of the tall  roof, stepped one foot out into the air, and walked into space as calmly  as if he were on firm ground.    The girl, greatly astonished, ran to lean over the edge of the roof, and  saw the man walking rapidly through the air toward the ground. Soon he  reached the street and disappeared through a glass doorway into one of  the glass buildings.    "How strange!" she exclaimed, drawing a long breath.    "Yes; but it's lots of fun, if it _is_ strange," remarked the small  voice of the kitten, and Dorothy turned to find her pet walking in the  air a foot or so away from the edge of the roof.    "Come back, Eureka!" she called, in distress, "you'll certainly be  killed."    "I have nine lives," said the kitten, purring softly as it walked around  in a circle and then came back to the roof; "but I can't lose even one  of them by falling in this country, because I really couldn't manage to  fall if I wanted to."    "Does the air bear up your weight?" asked the girl.    "Of course; can't you see?" and again the kitten wandered into the air  and back to the edge of the roof.    "It's wonderful!" said Dorothy.    "Suppose we let Eureka go down to the street and get some one to help  us," suggested Zeb, who had been even more amazed than Dorothy at these  strange happenings.    "Perhaps we can walk on the air ourselves," replied the girl.    Zeb drew back with a shiver.    "I wouldn't dare try," he said.    "May be Jim will go," continued Dorothy, looking at the horse.    "And may be he won't!" answered Jim. "I've tumbled through the air long  enough to make me contented on this roof."    "But we didn't tumble to the roof," said the girl; "by the time we  reached here we were floating very slowly, and I'm almost sure we could  float down to the street without getting hurt. Eureka walks on the air 
with excitement. A balloon meant to her some other arrival from the  surface of the earth, and she hoped it would be some one able to assist  her and Zeb out of their difficulties.    In an hour the balloon had come near enough for her to see a basket  suspended below it; in two hours she could see a head looking over the  side of the basket; in three hours the big balloon settled slowly into  the great square in which they stood and came to rest on the glass  pavement.    Then a little man jumped out of the basket, took off his tall hat, and  bowed very gracefully to the crowd of Mangaboos around him. He was quite  an old little man, and his head was long and entirely bald.    "Why," cried Dorothy, in amazement, "it's Oz!"    The little man looked toward her and seemed as much surprised as she  was. But he smiled and bowed as he answered:    "Yes, my dear; I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Eh? And you are little  Dorothy, from Kansas. I remember you very well."    "Who did you say it was?" whispered Zeb to the girl.    "It's the wonderful Wizard of Oz. Haven't you heard of him?"    Just then the man with the star came and stood before the Wizard.    "Sir," said he, "why are you here, in the Land of the Mangaboos?"    "Didn't know what land it was, my son," returned the other, with a  pleasant smile; "and, to be honest, I didn't mean to visit you when I  started out. I live on top of the earth, your honor, which is far better  than living inside it; but yesterday I went up in a balloon, and when I  came down I fell into a big crack in the earth, caused by an earthquake.  I had let so much gas out of my balloon that I could not rise again,  and in a few minutes the earth closed over my head. So I continued to  descend until I reached this place, and if you will show me a way to get  out of it, I'll go with pleasure. Sorry to have troubled you; but it 
first, the Prince next, then Jim drawing the buggy with the strangers  inside of it, and last the crowd of vegetable people who had no hearts  and could neither smile nor frown.    The glass city had several fine streets, for a good many people lived  there; but when the procession had passed through these it came upon a  broad plain covered with gardens and watered by many pretty brooks that  flowed through it. There were paths through these gardens, and over some  of the brooks were ornamental glass bridges.    Dorothy and Zeb now got out of the buggy and walked beside the Prince,  so that they might see and examine the flowers and plants better.    "Who built these lovely bridges?" asked the little girl.    "No one built them," answered the man with the star. "They grow."    "That's queer," said she. "Did the glass houses in your city grow, too?"    "Of course," he replied. "But it took a good many years for them to grow  as large and fine as they are now. That is why we are so angry when a  Rain of Stones comes to break our towers and crack our roofs."    "Can't you mend them?" she enquired.    "No; but they will grow together again, in time, and we must wait until  they do."    They first passed through many beautiful gardens of flowers, which grew  nearest the city; but Dorothy could hardly tell what kind of flowers  they were, because the colors were constantly changing under the  shifting lights of the six suns. A flower would be pink one second,  white the next, then blue or yellow; and it was the same way when they  came to the plants, which had broad leaves and grew close to the ground.    When they passed over a field of grass Jim immediately stretched down  his head and began to nibble.    "A nice country this is," he grumbled, "where a respectable horse has to  eat pink grass!"    "It's violet," said the Wizard, who was in the buggy.    "Now it's blue," complained the horse. "As a matter of fact, I'm eating 
  Instantly the Princess turned and faced him, and when he saw that she  was picked the Prince stood still and began to tremble.    "Sir," said the Royal Lady, with much dignity, "you have wronged me  greatly, and would have wronged me still more had not these strangers  come to my rescue. I have been ready for picking all the past week, but  because you were selfish and desired to continue your unlawful rule,  you left me to stand silent upon my bush."    "I did not know that you were ripe," answered the Prince, in a low  voice.    "Give me the Star of Royalty!" she commanded.    Slowly he took the shining star from his own brow and placed it upon  that of the Princess. Then all the people bowed low to her, and the  Prince turned and walked away alone. What became of him afterward our  friends never knew.    The people of Mangaboo now formed themselves into a procession and  marched toward the glass city to escort their new ruler to her palace  and to perform those ceremonies proper to the occasion. But while the  people in the procession walked upon the ground the Princess walked in  the air just above their heads, to show that she was a superior being  and more exalted than her subjects.    No one now seemed to pay any attention to the strangers, so Dorothy and  Zeb and the Wizard let the train pass on and then wandered by themselves  into the vegetable gardens. They did not bother to cross the bridges  over the brooks, but when they came to a stream they stepped high and  walked in the air to the other side. This was a very interesting  experience to them, and Dorothy said:    "I wonder why it is that we can walk so easily in the air."    "Perhaps," answered the Wizard, "it is because we are close to the  center of the earth, where the attraction of gravitation is very slight.  But I've noticed that many queer things happen in fairy countries."    "Is this a fairy country?" asked the boy.    "Of course it is," returned Dorothy, promptly. "Only a fairy country 
returned Dorothy was awake. Then the three held a counsel to decide what  they should do next, but could think of no way to better their  condition.    "I don't like these veg'table people," said the little girl. "They're  cold and flabby, like cabbages, in spite of their prettiness."    "I agree with you. It is because there is no warm blood in them,"  remarked the Wizard.    "And they have no hearts; so they can't love anyone--not even  themselves," declared the boy.    "The Princess is lovely to look at," continued Dorothy, thoughtfully;  "but I don't care much for her, after all. If there was any other place  to go, I'd like to go there."    "But _is_ there any other place?" asked the Wizard.    "I don't know," she answered.    Just then they heard the big voice of Jim the cab-horse calling to them,  and going to the doorway leading to the dome they found the Princess and  a throng of her people had entered the House of the Sorcerer.    So they went down to greet the beautiful vegetable lady, who said to  them:    "I have been talking with my advisors about you meat people, and we have  decided that you do not belong in the Land of the Mangaboos and must not  remain here."    "How can we go away?" asked Dorothy.    "Oh, you cannot go away, of course; so you must be destroyed," was the  answer.    "In what way?" enquired the Wizard.    "We shall throw you three people into the Garden of the Twining Vines,"  said the Princess, "and they will soon crush you and devour your bodies  to make themselves grow bigger. The animals you have with you we will  drive to the mountains and put into the Black Pit. Then our country will  be rid of all its unwelcome visitors."    "But you are in need of a Sorcerer," said the Wizard, "and not one of  those growing is yet ripe enough to pick. I am greater than any  thorn-covered sorcerer that ever grew in your garden. Why destroy me?"  
follow her. At once the Mangaboos began piling up the rocks of glass  again, and as the little man realized that they were all about to be  entombed in the mountain he said to the children:    "My dears, what shall we do? Jump out and fight?"    "What's the use?" replied Dorothy. "I'd as soon die here as live much  longer among those cruel and heartless people."    "That's the way I feel about it," remarked Zeb, rubbing his wounds.  "I've had enough of the Mangaboos."    "All right," said the Wizard; "I'm with you, whatever you decide. But we  can't live long in this cavern, that's certain."    Noticing that the light was growing dim he picked up his nine piglets,  patted each one lovingly on its fat little head, and placed them  carefully in his inside pocket.    Zeb struck a match and lighted one of the lanterns. The rays of the  colored suns were now shut out from them forever, for the last chinks  had been filled up in the wall that separated their prison from the Land  of the Mangaboos.    "How big is this hole?" asked Dorothy.    "I'll explore it and see," replied the boy.    So he carried the lantern back for quite a distance, while Dorothy and  the Wizard followed at his side. The cavern did not come to an end, as  they had expected it would, but slanted upward through the great glass  mountain, running in a direction that promised to lead them to the side  opposite the Mangaboo country.    "It isn't a bad road," observed the Wizard, "and if we followed it it  might lead us to some place that is more comfortable than this black  pocket we are now in. I suppose the vegetable folk were always afraid to  enter this cavern because it is dark; but we have our lanterns to light  the way, so I propose that we start out and discover where this tunnel  in the mountain leads to."    The others agreed readily to this sensible suggestion, and at once the  boy began to harness Jim to the buggy. When all was in readiness the 
before. "You are welcome to what we have."    As he spoke the voice came so near to Zeb that he jumped back in alarm.  Two childish voices laughed merrily at this action, and Dorothy was sure  they were in no danger among such light-hearted folks, even if those  folks couldn't be seen.    "What curious animal is that which is eating the grass on my lawn?"  enquired the man's voice.    "That's Jim," said the girl. "He's a horse."    "What is he good for?" was the next question.    "He draws the buggy you see fastened to him, and we ride in the buggy  instead of walking," she explained.    "Can he fight?" asked the man's voice.    "No! he can kick pretty hard with his heels, and bite a little; but Jim  can't 'zactly fight," she replied.    "Then the bears will get him," said one of the children's voices.    "Bears!" exclaimed Dorothy. "Are these bears here?"    "That is the one evil of our country," answered the invisible man. "Many  large and fierce bears roam in the Valley of Voe, and when they can  catch any of us they eat us up; but as they cannot see us, we seldom get  caught."    "Are the bears invis'ble, too?" asked the girl.    "Yes; for they eat of the dama-fruit, as we all do, and that keeps them  from being seen by any eye, whether human or animal."    "Does the dama-fruit grow on a low bush, and look something like a  peach?" asked the Wizard.    "Yes," was the reply.    "If it makes you invis'ble, why do you eat it?" Dorothy enquired.    "For two reasons, my dear," the woman's voice answered. "The dama-fruit  is the most delicious thing that grows, and when it makes us invisible  the bears cannot find us to eat us up. But now, good wanderers, your  luncheon is on the table, so please sit down and eat as much as you  like."    [Illustration]          CHAPTER 9.    THEY FIGHT THE INVISIBLE BEARS 
  "Sir," said the voice, "you must rub these leaves upon the soles of  all your feet, and then you will be able to walk upon the water without  sinking below the surface. It is a secret the bears do not know, and we  people of Voe usually walk upon the water when we travel, and so escape  our enemies."    "Thank you!" cried the Wizard, joyfully, and at once rubbed a leaf upon  the soles of Dorothy's shoes and then upon his own. The girl took a leaf  and rubbed it upon the kitten's paws, and the rest of the plant was  handed to Zeb, who, after applying it to his own feet, carefully rubbed  it upon all four of Jim's hoofs and then upon the tires of the  buggy-wheels. He had nearly finished this last task when a low growling  was suddenly heard and the horse began to jump around and kick viciously  with his heels.    "Quick! To the water, or you are lost!" cried their unseen friend, and  without hesitation the Wizard drew the buggy down the bank and out upon  the broad river, for Dorothy was still seated in it with Eureka in her  arms. They did not sink at all, owing to the virtues of the strange  plant they had used, and when the buggy was in the middle of the stream  the Wizard returned to the bank to assist Zeb and Jim.    The horse was plunging madly about, and two or three deep gashes  appeared upon its flanks, from which the blood flowed freely.    "Run for the river!" shouted the Wizard, and Jim quickly freed himself  from his unseen tormenters by a few vicious kicks and then obeyed. As  soon as he trotted out upon the surface of the river he found himself  safe from pursuit, and Zeb was already running across the water toward  Dorothy.    As the little Wizard turned to follow them he felt a hot breath against  his cheek and heard a low, fierce growl. At once he began stabbing at  the air with his sword, and he knew that he had struck some substance  because when he drew back the blade it was dripping with blood. The 
  "You may need them, some time," he said, "and there is really no use in  my manufacturing these things unless somebody uses them."    "Why did you leave the surface of the earth?" enquired the Wizard.    "I could not help it. It is a sad story, but if you will try to restrain  your tears I will tell you about it. On earth I was a manufacturer of  Imported Holes for American Swiss Cheese, and I will acknowledge that I  supplied a superior article, which was in great demand. Also I made  pores for porous plasters and high-grade holes for doughnuts and  buttons. Finally I invented a new Adjustable Post-hole, which I thought  would make my fortune. I manufactured a large quantity of these  post-holes, and having no room in which to store them I set them all end  to end and put the top one in the ground. That made an extraordinary  long hole, as you may imagine, and reached far down into the earth; and,  as I leaned over it to try to see to the bottom, I lost my balance and  tumbled in. Unfortunately, the hole led directly into the vast space you  see outside this mountain; but I managed to catch a point of rock that  projected from this cavern, and so saved myself from tumbling headlong  into the black waves beneath, where the tongues of flame that dart out  would certainly have consumed me. Here, then, I made my home; and  although it is a lonely place I amuse myself making rustles and  flutters, and so get along very nicely."    When the braided man had completed this strange tale Dorothy nearly  laughed, because it was all so absurd; but the Wizard tapped his  forehead significantly, to indicate that he thought the poor man was  crazy. So they politely bade him good day, and went back to the outer  cavern to resume their journey.    [Illustration]          CHAPTER 11.    THEY MEET THE WOODEN GARGOYLES      Another breathless climb brought our adventurers to a third landing  where there was a rift in the mountain. On peering out all they could 
"No," returned Dorothy, stoutly, "it won't do to go back, for then we  would never get home. Let's fight it out."    "That is what I advise," said the Wizard. "They haven't defeated us yet,  and Jim is worth a whole army."    But the Gargoyles were clever enough not to attack the horse the next  time. They advanced in a great swarm, having been joined by many more of  their kind, and they flew straight over Jim's head to where the others  were standing.    The Wizard raised one of his revolvers and fired into the throng of his  enemies, and the shot resounded like a clap of thunder in that silent  place.    Some of the wooden beings fell flat upon the ground, where they quivered  and trembled in every limb; but most of them managed to wheel and escape  again to a distance.    Zeb ran and picked up one of the Gargoyles that lay nearest to him. The  top of its head was carved into a crown and the Wizard's bullet had  struck it exactly in the left eye, which was a hard wooden knot. Half of  the bullet stuck in the wood and half stuck out, so it had been the jar  and the sudden noise that had knocked the creature down, more than the  fact that it was really hurt. Before this crowned Gargoyle had recovered  himself Zeb had wound a strap several times around its body, confining  its wings and arms so that it could not move. Then, having tied the  wooden creature securely, the boy buckled the strap and tossed his  prisoner into the buggy. By that time the others had all retired.    [Illustration]          CHAPTER 12.    A WONDERFUL ESCAPE      For a while the enemy hesitated to renew the attack. Then a few of them  advanced until another shot from the Wizard's revolver made them  retreat.    "That's fine," said Zeb. "We've got 'em on the run now, sure enough."    "But only for a time," replied the Wizard, shaking his head gloomily.  "These revolvers are good for six shots each, but when those are gone we 
to buckle one piece to another until he had made a long leather strip  that would reach to the ground.    [Illustration: THE FIGHT WITH THE GARGOYLES.]    "I can climb down that, all right," he said.    "No you can't," remarked Jim, with a twinkle in his round eyes. "You may  _go_ down, but you can only _climb_ up."    "Well, I'll climb up when I get back, then," said the boy, with a laugh.  "Now, Eureka, you'll have to show me the way to those wings."    "You must be very quiet," warned the kitten; "for if you make the least  noise the Gargoyles will wake up. They can hear a pin drop."    "I'm not going to drop a pin," said Zeb.    He had fastened one end of the strap to a wheel of the buggy, and now he  let the line dangle over the side of the house.    "Be careful," cautioned Dorothy, earnestly.    "I will," said the boy, and let himself slide over the edge.    The girl and the Wizard leaned over and watched Zeb work his way  carefully downward, hand over hand, until he stood upon the ground  below. Eureka clung with her claws to the wooden side of the house and  let herself down easily. Then together they crept away to enter the low  doorway of a neighboring dwelling.    The watchers waited in breathless suspense until the boy again appeared,  his arms now full of the wooden wings.    When he came to where the strap was hanging he tied the wings all in a  bunch to the end of the line, and the Wizard drew them up. Then the line  was let down again for Zeb to climb up by. Eureka quickly followed him,  and soon they were all standing together upon the platform, with eight  of the much prized wooden wings beside them.    The boy was no longer sleepy, but full of energy and excitement. He put  the harness together again and hitched Jim to the buggy. Then, with the  Wizard's help, he tried to fasten some of the wings to the old  
  "I should think she would be," agreed Dorothy. Then, after a moment's  thought, she asked: "Are we friends or enemies? I mean, will you be good  to us, or do you intend to eat us?"    "As for that, we dragonettes would love to eat you, my child; but  unfortunately mother has tied all our tails around the rocks at the back  of our individual caves, so that we can not crawl out to get you. If you  choose to come nearer we will make a mouthful of you in a wink; but  unless you do you will remain quite safe."    There was a regretful accent in the creature's voice, and at the words  all the other dragonettes sighed dismally.    Dorothy felt relieved. Presently she asked:    "Why did your mother tie your tails?"    "Oh, she is sometimes gone for several weeks on her hunting trips, and  if we were not tied we would crawl all over the mountain and fight with  each other and get into a lot of mischief. Mother usually knows what she  is about, but she made a mistake this time; for you are sure to escape  us unless you come too near, and you probably won't do that."    "No, indeed!" said the little girl. "We don't wish to be eaten by such  awful beasts."    "Permit me to say," returned the dragonette, "that you are rather  impolite to call us names, knowing that we cannot resent your insults.  We consider ourselves very beautiful in appearance, for mother has told  us so, and she knows. And we are of an excellent family and have a  pedigree that I challenge any humans to equal, as it extends back about  twenty thousand years, to the time of the famous Green Dragon of  Atlantis, who lived in a time when humans had not yet been created. Can  you match that pedigree, little girl?"    "Well," said Dorothy, "I was born on a farm in Kansas, and I guess  that's being just as 'spectable and haughty as living in a cave with  your tail tied to a rock. If it isn't I'll have to stand it, that's 
"Of course; in just a jiffy. And Ozma has an enchanted picture hanging  in her room that shows her the exact scene where any of her friends may  be, at any time she chooses. All she has to do is to say: 'I wonder what  So-and-so is doing,' and at once the picture shows where her friend is  and what the friend is doing. That's _real_ magic, Mr. Wizard; isn't it?  Well, every day at four o'clock Ozma has promised to look at me in that  picture, and if I am in need of help I am to make her a certain sign and  she will put on the Nome King's Magic Belt and wish me to be with her in  Oz."    "Do you mean that Princess Ozma will see this cave in her enchanted  picture, and see all of us here, and what we are doing?" demanded Zeb.    "Of course; when it is four o'clock," she replied, with a laugh at his  startled expression.    "And when you make a sign she will bring you to her in the Land of Oz?"  continued the boy.    "That's it, exactly; by means of the Magic Belt."    "Then," said the Wizard, "you will be saved, little Dorothy; and I am  very glad of it. The rest of us will die much more cheerfully when we  know you have escaped our sad fate."    "_I_ won't die cheerfully!" protested the kitten. "There's nothing  cheerful about dying that I could ever see, although they say a cat has  nine lives, and so must die nine times."    "Have you ever died yet?" enquired the boy.    "No, and I'm not anxious to begin," said Eureka.    "Don't worry, dear," Dorothy exclaimed, "I'll hold you in my arms, and  take you with me."    "Take us, too!" cried the nine tiny piglets, all in one breath.    "Perhaps I can," answered Dorothy. "I'll try."    "Couldn't you manage to hold me in your arms?" asked the cab-horse.    Dorothy laughed.    "I'll do better than that," she promised, "for I can easily save you  all, once I am myself in the Land of Oz." 
  He knew the way to it, and a servant followed him, carrying his satchel.  Zeb was also escorted to a room--so grand and beautiful that he almost  feared to sit in the chairs or lie upon the bed, lest he might dim their  splendor. In the closets he discovered many fancy costumes of rich  velvets and brocades, and one of the attendants told him to dress  himself in any of the clothes that pleased him and to be prepared to  dine with the Princess and Dorothy in an hour's time.    Opening from the chamber was a fine bath-room having a marble tub with  perfumed water; so the boy, still dazed by the novelty of his  surroundings, indulged in a good bath and then selected a maroon velvet  costume with silver buttons to replace his own soiled and much worn  clothing. There were silk stockings and soft leather slippers with  diamond buckles to accompany his new costume, and when he was fully  dressed Zeb looked much more dignified and imposing than ever before in  his life.    He was all ready when an attendant came to escort him to the presence of  the Princess; he followed bashfully and was ushered into a room more  dainty and attractive than it was splendid. Here he found Dorothy seated  beside a young girl so marvelously beautiful that the boy stopped  suddenly with a gasp of admiration.    But Dorothy sprang up and ran to seize her friend's hand, drawing him  impulsively toward the lovely Princess, who smiled most graciously upon  her guest. Then the Wizard entered, and his presence relieved the boy's  embarrassment. The little man was clothed in black velvet, with many  sparkling emerald ornaments decorating his breast; but his bald head and  wrinkled features made him appear more amusing than impressive.    Ozma had been quite curious to meet the famous man who had built the  Emerald City and united the Munchkins, Gillikins, Quadlings and Winkies  into one people; so when they were all four seated at the dinner table  the Princess said:    "Please tell me, Mr. Wizard, whether you called yourself Oz after this  great country, or whether you believe my country is called Oz after you. 
brought him a steaming bowl of soup, which the horse eyed in dismay.    "Take that stuff away!" he commanded. "Do you take me for a  salamander?"    They obeyed at once, and next served a fine large turbot on a silver  platter, with drawn gravey poured over it.    "Fish!" cried Jim, with a sniff. "Do you take me for a tom-cat? Away  with it!"    The servants were a little discouraged, but soon they brought in a great  tray containing two dozen nicely roasted quail on toast.    "Well, well!" said the horse, now thoroughly provoked. "Do you take me  for a weasel? How stupid and ignorant you are, in the Land of Oz, and  what dreadful things you feed upon! Is there nothing that is decent to  eat in this palace?"    The trembling servants sent for the Royal Steward, who came in haste and  said:    "What would your Highness like for dinner?"    "Highness!" repeated Jim, who was unused to such titles.    "You are at least six feet high, and that is higher than any other  animal in this country," said the Steward.    "Well, my Highness would like some oats," declared the horse.    "Oats? We have no whole oats," the Steward replied, with much  defference. "But there is any quantity of oatmeal, which we often cook  for breakfast. Oatmeal is a breakfast dish," added the Steward, humbly.    "I'll make it a dinner dish," said Jim. "Fetch it on, but don't cook it,  as you value your life."    You see, the respect shown the worn-out old cab-horse made him a little  arrogant, and he forgot he was a guest, never having been treated  otherwise than as a servant since the day he was born, until his arrival  in the Land of Oz. But the royal attendants did not heed the animal's  ill temper. They soon mixed a tub of oatmeal with a little water, and  Jim ate it with much relish.    Then the servants heaped a lot of rugs upon the floor and the old horse  slept on the softest bed he had ever known in his life. 
keep it waiting a single minute."    [Illustration]    [Illustration: JIM STOOD TREMBLING LIKE A LEAF.]          CHAPTER 17.    THE NINE TINY PIGLETS      After breakfast Ozma announced that she had ordered a holiday to be  observed throughout the Emerald City, in honor of her visitors. The  people had learned that their old Wizard had returned to them and all  were anxious to see him again, for he had always been a rare favorite.  So first there was to be a grand procession through the streets, after  which the little old man was requested to perform some of his wizardries  in the great Throne Room of the palace. In the afternoon there were to  be games and races.    The procession was very imposing. First came the Imperial Cornet Band of  Oz, dressed in emerald velvet uniforms with slashes of pea-green satin  and buttons of immense cut emeralds. They played the National air  called "The Oz Spangled Banner," and behind them were the standard  bearers with the Royal flag. This flag was divided into four quarters,  one being colored sky-blue, another pink, a third lavender and a fourth  white. In the center was a large emerald-green star, and all over the  four quarters were sewn spangles that glittered beautifully in the  sunshine. The colors represented the four countries of Oz, and the green  star the Emerald City.    Just behind the royal standard-bearers came the Princess Ozma in her  royal chariot, which was of gold encrusted with emeralds and diamonds  set in exquisite designs. The chariot was drawn on this occasion by the  Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, who were decorated with immense pink  and blue bows. In the chariot rode Ozma and Dorothy, the former in  splendid raiment and wearing her royal coronet, while the little Kansas  girl wore around her waist the Magic Belt she had once captured from the  Nome King.    Following the chariot came the Scarecrow mounted on the Sawhorse, and  the people cheered him almost as loudly as they did their lovely Ruler.  Behind him stalked with regular, jerky steps, the famous machine-man 
  Several days of festivity and merry-making followed, for such old  friends did not often meet and there was much to be told and talked over  between them, and many amusements to be enjoyed in this delightful  country.    Ozma was happy to have Dorothy beside her, for girls of her own age with  whom it was proper for the Princess to associate were very few, and  often the youthful Ruler of Oz was lonely for lack of companionship.    It was the third morning after Dorothy's arrival, and she was sitting  with Ozma and their friends in a reception room, talking over old times,  when the Princess said to her maid:    "Please go to my boudoir, Jellia, and get the white piglet I left on the  dressing-table. I want to play with it."    Jellia at once departed on the errand, and she was gone so long that  they had almost forgotten her mission when the green robed maiden  returned with a troubled face.    "The piglet is not there, your Highness," said she.    "Not there!" exclaimed Ozma. "Are you sure?"    "I have hunted in every part of the room," the maid replied.    "Was not the door closed?" asked the Princess.    "Yes, your Highness; I am sure it was; for when I opened it Dorothy's  white kitten crept out and ran up the stairs."    Hearing this, Dorothy and the Wizard exchanged startled glances, for  they remembered how often Eureka had longed to eat a piglet. The little  girl jumped up at once.    "Come, Ozma," she said, anxiously; "let us go ourselves to search for  the piglet."    So the two went to the dressing-room of the Princess and searched  carefully in every corner and among the vases and baskets and ornaments  that stood about the pretty boudoir. But not a trace could they find of  the tiny creature they sought.    Dorothy was nearly weeping, by this time, while Ozma was angry and  indignant. When they returned to the others the Princess said:    "There is little doubt that my pretty piglet has been eaten by that 
"Are you still seeing with your mind's eye?" enquired the Scarecrow.    "Of course; how else could I see it? And we know the thing is true,  because since the time of that interview there is no piglet to be found  anywhere."    [Illustration: EUREKA IN COURT.]    "I suppose, if the cat had been gone, instead of the piglet, your mind's  eye would see the piglet eating the cat," suggested the Scarecrow.    "Very likely," acknowledged the Woggle-Bug. "And now, Fellow Citizens  and Creatures of the Jury, I assert that so awful a crime deserves  death, and in the case of the ferocious criminal before you--who is now  washing her face--the death penalty should be inflicted nine times."    There was great applause when the speaker sat down. Then the Princess  spoke in a stern voice:    "Prisoner, what have you to say for yourself? Are you guilty, or not  guilty?"    "Why, that's for you to find out," replied Eureka. "If you can prove I'm  guilty, I'll be willing to die nine times, but a mind's eye is no proof,  because the Woggle-Bug has no mind to see with."    "Never mind, dear," said Dorothy.    Then the Tin Woodman arose and said:    "Respected Jury and dearly beloved Ozma, I pray you not to judge this  feline prisoner unfeelingly. I do not think the innocent kitten can be  guilty, and surely it is unkind to accuse a luncheon of being a murder.  Eureka is the sweet pet of a lovely little girl whom we all admire, and  gentleness and innocence are her chief virtues. Look at the kitten's  intelligent eyes;" (here Eureka closed her eyes sleepily) "gaze at her  smiling countenance!" (here Eureka snarled and showed her teeth) "mark  the tender pose of her soft, padded little hands!" (Here Eureka bared  her sharp claws and scratched at the bars of the cage.) "Would such a  gentle animal be guilty of eating a fellow creature? No; a thousand  times, no!"    "Oh, cut it short," said Eureka; "you've talked long enough."    "I'm trying to defend you," remonstrated the Tin Woodman.    
