  ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE-NOVELS  MONTHLY, WIDE WORLD ADVENTURES, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, FLYERS,  RANGELAND LOVE STORY MAGAZINE, SKY-HIGH LIBRARY MAGAZINE, MISS 1930,  _and_ FOREST AND STREAM    _More Than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand for  Clayton Magazines._      VOL. I, No. 2               CONTENTS                    FEBRUARY, 1930    COVER DESIGN                          H. W. WESSOLOWSKI  _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "Spawn of the Stars."_    OLD CROMPTON'S SECRET                 HARL VINCENT                 153  _Tom's Extraordinary Machine Glowed--and the Years Were Banished  from Old Crompton's Body. But There Still Remained, Deep-seated in  His Century-old Mind, the Memory of His Crime._    SPAWN OF THE STARS                    CHARLES WILLARD DIFFIN       166  _The Earth Lay Powerless Beneath Those Loathsome, Yellowish  Monsters That, Sheathed in Cometlike Globes, Sprang from the Skies  to Annihilate Man and Reduce His Cities to Ashes._    THE CORPSE ON THE GRATING             HUGH B. CAVE                 187  _In the Gloomy Depths of the Old Warehouse Dale Saw a Thing That  Drew a Scream of Horror to His Dry Lips. It Was a Corpse--the Mold  of Decay on Its Long-dead Features--and Yet It Was Alive!_    CREATURES OF THE LIGHT                SOPHIE WENZEL ELLIS          196 
 Had you, a visitor, departed from Laketon when Old Crompton did and  returned twelve years later, you would have noticed very little  difference in the appearance of the village. The old town hall and the  little park were the same, the dingy brick building among the trees  being just a little dingier and its wooden steps more worn and sagged.  The main street showed evidence of recent repaving, and, in consequence  of the resulting increase in through automobile traffic; there were two  new gasoline filling stations in the heart of the town. Down the road  about a half mile there was a new building, which, upon inquiring from  one of the natives, would be proudly designated as the new high school  building. Otherwise there were no changes to be observed.    In his dilapidated chair in the untidy office he had occupied for nearly  thirty years, sat Asa Culkin, popularly known as "Judge" Culkin. Justice  of the peace, sheriff, attorney-at-law, and three times Mayor of  Laketon, he was still a controlling factor in local politics and  government. And many a knotty legal problem was settled in that gloomy  little office. Many a dispute in the town council was dependent for  arbitration upon the keen mind and understanding wit of the old judge.    The four o'clock train had just puffed its labored way from the station  when a stranger entered his office, a stranger of uncommonly prosperous  air. The keen blue eyes of the old attorney appraised him instantly and  classified him as a successful man of business, not yet forty years of  age, and with a weighty problem on his mind.    "What can I do for you, sir?" he asked, removing his feet from the  battered desk top.    "You may be able to help me a great deal, Judge," was the unexpected  reply. "I came to Laketon to give myself up."    "Give yourself up?" Culkin rose to his feet in surprise and  unconsciously straightened his shoulders in the effort to seem less  dwarfed before the tall stranger. "Why, what do you mean?" he inquired.    *       *       *       *       * 
And each knew what the other was seeing--a viscous ocherous mass that  formed into a head where eyes devilish in their hate stared coldly into  theirs....    "Think, we need to think," repeated Thurston later. "A creature that is  just one big hideous brain, that can think an arm into existence--think  a head where it wishes! What does a thing like that think of? What  beastly thoughts could that--that _thing_ conceive?"    "If I got the sights of a Lewis gun on it," said Riley vindictively,  "I'd make it think."    "And my guess is that is all you would accomplish," Thurston told him.  "I am forming a few theories about our visitors. One is that it would be  quite impossible to find a vital spot in that big homogeneous mass."    The pilot dispensed with theories: his was a more literal mind. "Where  on earth did they come from, do you suppose, Mr. Thurston?"    *       *       *       *       *    They were walking to their hotel. Thurston raised his eyes to the summer  heavens. Faint stars were beginning to twinkle; there was one that  glowed steadily.    "Nowhere on earth," Thurston stated softly, "nowhere on earth."    "Maybe so," said the pilot, "maybe so. We've thought about it and talked  about it ... and they've gone ahead and done it." He called to a  newsboy; they took the latest editions to their room.    The papers were ablaze with speculation. There were dispatches from all  corners of the earth, interviews with scientists and near scientists.  The machines were a Soviet invention--they were beyond anything  human--they were harmless--they would wipe out civilization--poison  gas--blasts of fire like that which had enveloped the army flyer....    And through it all Thurston read an ill-concealed fear, a reflection of  panic that was gripping the nation--the whole world. These great  machines were sinister. Wherever they appeared came the sense of being  watched, of a menace being calmly withheld. And at thought of the 
   Thurston found his voice. "Let me have that Very pistol. If light hurts  that damn thing, I am going to put a blaze of magnesium into the middle  of it if I die for it."    "They're all gone," said Riley.    "Then let's get out of here. I've had enough. We can come back later  on."    He got back of the wheel and slammed the door of the sedan. The  moonlight was gone. The darkness was velvet just tinged with the gray  that precedes the dawn. Back in the deeper blackness at the cliff-base a  phosphorescent something wavered and glowed. The light rippled and  flowed in all directions over the mass. Thurston felt, vaguely, its  mystery--the bulk was a vast, naked brain; its quiverings were like  visible thought waves....    *       *       *       *       *    The phosphorescence grew brighter. The thing was approaching. Thurston  let in his clutch, but the scientist checked him.    "Wait," he implored, "wait! I wouldn't miss this for the world." He  waved toward the east, where far distant ranges were etched in palest  rose.    "We know less than nothing of these creatures, in what part  of the universe they are spawned, how they live, where they  live--Saturn!--Mars!--the Moon! But--we shall soon know how one dies!"    The thing was coming from the cliff. In the dim grayness it seemed less  yellow, less fluid. A membrane enclosed it. It was close to the car. Was  it hunger that drove it, or cold rage for these puny opponents? The  hollow eyes were glaring; a thick arm formed quickly to dart out toward  the car. A cloud, high above, caught the color of approaching day....    Before their eyes the vile mass pulsed visibly; it quivered and beat.  Then, sensing its danger, it darted like some headless serpent for its  machine.    It massed itself about the shattered top to heave convulsively. The top  was lifted, carried toward the rest of the great metal egg. The sun's 
"He fired its bombs," whispered Thurston in a shaking voice. "He killed  the other devils where they lay--he destroyed this with its own  explosive. He flew upside down to shoot up with the ray, to set off its  shells...."    His mind was fumbling with the miracle of it. "Clever pilot, Riley, in a  dog-fight...." And then he realized.    Cyrus Thurston, millionaire sportsman, sank slowly, numbly to the roof  of the Equitable Building that still stood. And New York was still there  ... and the whole world....    He sobbed weakly, brokenly. Through his dazed brain flashed a sudden,  mind-saving thought. He laughed foolishly through his sobs.    "And you said he'd die horribly, Mac, a horrible death." His head  dropped upon his arms, unconscious--and safe--with the rest of  humanity.    *       *       *       *       *          The Corpse on the Grating    _By Hugh B. Cave_      In the gloomy depths of the old warehouse Dale saw a thing that  drew a scream of horror to his dry lips. It was a corpse--the  mold of decay on its long-dead features--and yet it was alive!    [Illustration: _It was a corpse, standing before me like some propped-up  thing from the grave._]      It was ten o'clock on the morning of December 5 when M. S. and I left  the study of Professor Daimler. You are perhaps acquainted with M. S.  His name appears constantly in the pages of the Illustrated News, in  conjunction with some very technical article on psycho-analysis or with  some extensive study of the human brain and its functions. He is a  psycho-fanatic, more or less, and has spent an entire lifetime of some  seventy-odd years in pulling apart human skulls for the purpose of  investigation. Lovely pursuit!    For some twenty years I have mocked him, in a friendly, half-hearted  
 refreshing patter of falling rain.    *       *       *       *       *    It was the afternoon of the following day, December 6, when M. S. sat  across the table from me in my own study. I had made a rather hesitant  attempt to tell him, without dramatics and without dwelling on my own  lack of courage, of the events of the previous night.    "You deserved it, Dale," he said quietly. "You are a medical man,  nothing more, and yet you mock the beliefs of a scientist as great as  Daimler. I wonder--do you still mock the Professor's beliefs?"    "That he can bring a dead man to life?" I smiled, a bit doubtfully.    "I will tell you something, Dale," said M. S. deliberately. He was  leaning across the table, staring at me. "The Professor made only one  mistake in his great experiment. He did not wait long enough for the  effect of his strange acids to work. He acknowledged failure too soon,  and got rid of the body." He paused.    "When the Professor stored his patient away, Dale," he said quietly, "he  stored it in room 4170, at the great warehouse. If you are acquainted  with the place, you will know that room 4170 is directly across the  corridor from 4167."    *       *       *       *       *          Creatures of the Light    _By Sophie Wenzel Ellis_      He had striven to perfect the faultless man of the future, and  had succeeded--too well. For in the pitilessly cold eyes of  Adam, his super-human creation, Dr. Mundson saw only  contempt--and annihilation--for the human race.    [Illustration]      In a night club of many lights and much high-pitched laughter, where he 
In sudden, overpowering horror, he seized the fur coats and returned to  the control room.    *       *       *       *       *    Dr. Mundson was changing the speed.    "Look out the window!" he called to Northwood.    The young man looked and started violently. Day had come, and now that  the sun-ship was flying at a moderate speed, the ocean beneath was  plainly visible; and its entire surface was covered with broken floes of  ice and small, ragged icebergs. He seized a telescope and focused it  below. A typical polar scene met his eyes: penguins strutted about on  cakes of ice, a whale blowing in the icy water.    "A part of the Antarctic that has never been explored," said Dr.  Mundson; "and there, just showing on the horizon, is the Great Ice  Barrier." His characteristic smile lighted the morose black eyes. "I am  enough of the dramatist to wish you to be impressed with what I shall  show you within less than an hour. Accordingly, I shall make a landing  and let you feel polar ice under your feet."    After less than a minute's search, Dr. Mundson found a suitable place on  the ice for a landing, and, with a few deft manipulations of the  controls, brought the sun-ship swooping down like an eagle on its prey.    For a long moment after the scientist had stepped out on the ice,  Northwood paused at the door. His feet were chained by a strange  reluctance to enter this white, dead wilderness of ice. But Dr.  Mundson's impatient, "Ready?" drew from him one last glance at the cozy  interior of the sun-ship before he, too, went out into the frozen  stillness.    They left the sun-ship resting on the ice like a fallen silver moon,  while they wandered to the edge of the Barrier and looked at the gray,  narrow stretch of sea between the ice pack and the high cliffs of the  Barrier. The sun of the commencing six-months' Antarctic day was a low, 
   *       *       *       *       *    "Now come and see the Leyden jar mothers," said Dr. Mundson. "We do not  wait for the child to be born to start our work."    He took Northwood to a laboratory crowded with strange apparatus, where  young men and women worked. Northwood knew instantly that these people,  although unusually handsome and strong, were not of Adam's generation.  None of them had the look of newness which marked those who had grown up  under the Life Ray.    "They are the perfect couples whom I combed the world to find," said the  scientist. "From their eugenic marriages sprang the first children that  passed through the laboratory. I had hoped," he hesitated and looked  sideways at Northwood, "I had dreamed of having the children of you and  Athalia to help strengthen the New Race."    A wave of sudden disgust passed over Northwood.    "Thanks," he said tartly. "When I marry Athalia, I intend to have an  old-fashioned home and a Black Age family. I don't relish having my  children turned into--experiments."    "But wait until you see all the wonders of the laboratory! That is why I  am showing you all this."    Northwood drew his handkerchief and mopped his brow. "It sickens me,  Doctor! The more I see, the more pity I have for Adam--and the less I  blame him for his rebellion and his desire to kill and to rule. Heavens!  What a terrible thing you have done, experimenting with human life."    "Nonsense! Can you say that all life--all matter--is not the result of  scientific experiment? Can you?" His black gaze made Northwood  uncomfortable. "Buck up, young friend, for now I am going to show you a  marvelous improvement on Nature's bungling ways--the Leyden jar mother."  He raised his voice and called, "Lilith!"    The woman whom they had met on the field came forward.    "May we take a peep at Lona's twins?" asked the scientist. "They are 
polar bear.    "Get up!" he shouted. "Quick! To the sun-ship!"    He seized Athalia and jerked her to her feet. She looked at him sleepily  for a moment, and then threw herself at him and hugged him frantically.    "You're not dead?"    Taking each by the arm, he half dragged them to the sun-ship, which had  landed only a few feet away. In a few minutes he had hot brandy for  them.    While they sipped greedily, he talked, between working the sun-ship's  controls.    "No, I wouldn't say it was a lucky moment that drew me to the sun-ship.  When I saw Eve trying to charm John, I had what you American slangists  call a hunch, which sent me to the sun-ship to get it off the ground so  that Adam couldn't commandeer it. And what is a hunch but a mental  penetration into the Fourth Dimension?" For a long moment, he brooded,  absent-minded. "I was in the air when the black ray, which I suppose is  Adam's deviltry, began to destroy everything it touched. From a safe  elevation I saw it wreck all my work." A sudden spasm crossed his face.  "I've flown over the entire valley. We're the only survivors--thank  God!"    "And so at last you confess that it is not well to tamper with human  life?" Northwood, warmed with hot brandy, was his old self again.    "Oh, I have not altogether wasted my efforts. I went to elaborate pains  to bring together a perfect man and a perfect woman of what Adam called  our Black Age." He smiled at them whimsically.    "And who can say to what extent you have thus furthered natural  evolution?" Northwood slipped his arm around Athalia. "Our children  might be more than geniuses, Doctor!"    Dr. Mundson nodded his huge, shaggy head gravely.    "The true instinct of a Creature of the Light," he declared.    *       *       *       *       *    
   The insect horde is ruled by a human from the outside world--a  drug-doped madman. Dodd recognizes this man as Bram, the archaeologist  who had been lost years before at the Pole and given up for dead by a  world he had hated because it refused to accept his radical scientific  theories. His fiendish mind now plans the horrible revenge of leading  his unconquerable horde of monster insects forth to ravage the world,  destroy the human race and establish a new era--the era of the insect.    The world has to be warned of the impending doom. The two, with Haidia,  a girl of Submundia, escape, and pass through menacing dangers to within  two miles of the exit. There, suddenly, Tommy sees towering over him a  creature that turns his blood cold--a gigantic praying mantis. Before he  has time to act, the monster springs at them!      CHAPTER VII    _Through the Inferno_    Fortunately, the monster miscalculated its leap. The huge legs, whirling  through the air, came within a few inches of Tommy's head, but passed  over him, and the mantis plunged into the stream. Instantly the water  was alive with leaping things with faces of such grotesque horror that  Tommy sat paralyzed in his rocking shell, unable to avert his eyes.    Things no more than a foot or two in length, to judge from the slender,  eel-like bodies that leaped into the air, but things with catfish heads  and tentacles, and eyes waving on stalks; things with clawlike  appendages to their ventral fins, and mouths that widened to fearful  size, so that the whole head seemed to disappear above them, disclosing  fangs like wolves'. Instantly the water was churned into phosphorescent  fire as they precipitated themselves upon the struggling mantis, whose  enormous form, extending halfway from shore to shore, was covered with  the river monsters, gnawing, rending, tearing.    Luckily the struggles of the dying monster carried it downstream instead  of up. In a few moments the immediate danger was past. And suddenly  Haidia awoke, sat up.    "Where are we?" she cried. "Oh, I can see! I can see! Something has  burned away from my eyes! I know this place. A wise man of my people 
his hand he held a large electric bulb, its sides sheathed in a roughly  carved wooden frame; the wire was attached to a battery behind him.    "Well met, my friends!" he shouted exultantly. "I owe you more thanks  than I can express for having so providentially left the electrical  equipment of your plane undamaged after you crashed at the entrance to  Submundia. I had a hunch about it--and the hunch worked!"    *       *       *       *       *    He grinned more malevolently as he looked from one man to the other.    "You've run your race," he said. "But I'm going to have a little fun  with you before you die. I'm going to use you as an object lesson.  You'll find it out in a little while."    "Go ahead, go ahead, Bram," Dodd grinned back at him. "Just a few  million years ago, and you were a speck of protoplasm--in that  pre-pleistocene age--swimming among the invertebrate crustaceans that  characterized that epoch."    "Invertebrates and monotremes, Dodd," said Bram, almost wistfully. "The  mammals were already existent on the earth, as you know--" Suddenly he  broke off, as he realized that Dodd was spoofing him. A yell of  execration broke from his lips. He uttered a high whistle, and instantly  the whiplike lashes of a hundred beetles whizzed through the darkness  and remained poised over Dodd's head.    "Not even the marsupial lion, Bram," grinned Dodd, undismayed. "Go  ahead, go ahead, but I'll not die with a lie upon my lips!"      CHAPTER IX    _The Trail of Death_    "There's sure some sort of hoodoo on these Antarctic expeditions,  Wilson," said the city editor of _The Daily Record_ to the star rewrite  man. He glanced through the hastily typed report that had come through  on the wireless set erected on the thirty-sixth story of the Record  Building. "Tommy Travers gone, eh? And James Dodd, too! There'll be woe  and wailing along the Great White Way to-night when this news gets out. 
   His was the last plane on the Australian continent. He brought the news  of the destruction of Adelaide, and of the siege of Melbourne and  Sydney, as he termed it. He told Dodd and Tommy that the two cities had  been surrounded with trenches and barbed wire. Machine guns and  artillery were bombarding the trenches in which the beetles had taken  shelter.    "Has any one been out on reconnaissance?" asked Tommy.    Nobody had been permitted to pass through the barbed wire, though there  had been volunteers. It meant certain death. But, unless the beetles  were sapping deep in the ground, what their purpose was, nobody knew.    *       *       *       *       *    Tommy and Dodd led him to the piles of smoking, stinking débris and told  him.    That was where the aviator fainted from sheer relief.    "The Commonwealth wants you to take supreme command against the  beetles," he told Tommy, when he had recovered. "I'm to bring you back.  Not that they expect me back. But--God, what a piece of news! Forgive my  swearing--I used to be a parson. Still am, for the matter of that."    "How are you going to bring us three back in your plane?" asked Tommy.    "I shall stay here with Jimmydodd," said Haidia suavely. "There is not  the least danger any more. You must destroy the beetles before their  shells have grown again, that's all."    "Used to be a parson, you say? Still are?" shouted Dodd excitedly.  "Thank God! I mean, I'm glad to hear it. Come inside, and come quick. I  want you too, Tommy!"    Then Tommy understood. And it seemed as if Haidia understood, by some  instinct that belongs exclusively to women, for her cheeks were flushed  as she turned and smiled into Dodd's eyes.    Ten minutes later Tommy hopped into the biplane, leaving the happy  married couple at Settler's Station. His eyes grew misty as the plane  
sing. There was the trill of a canary with the sun on its cage. There  was the song of the thrush, the mocking-bird and the meadow lark. These  blended finally into a melodious burst of chirping melody which seemed a  chorus of the wild birds of the forest and glen. Then the lilting love  measure again. It tore at the heart strings, and brought tears to one's  eyes.    Unconsciously the girl next to Jenks leaned towards him. Involuntarily  he leaned to meet her. Their shoulders touched. The cloud of her golden  hair came to rest against his dark locks. Their hands found each other  with gentle pressure. Both were lost to the world.    Abruptly the music changed. There was a succession of broken treble  notes that sounded like the crackling of flames. Moans deep and  melancholy followed. These grew more strident and prolonged, giving  place to abject howls, suggesting the lamentations of the damned.    The hands of the boy and girl gripped tensely. They could not help  shuddering.    The violin began to produce notes of a leering, jeering character,  growing more horrible with each measure until they burst in a loud  guffaw of maniacal laughter.    The whole performance was as if someone had taken a heaven and plunged  it into a hell.    The musician bowed jerkily, and was gone.    *       *       *       *       *    There was no applause, only wild exclamations. Half the house was on its  feet. The other half sat as if glued to chairs.    The boy and the girl were standing, their hands still gripping tensely.    "Come, let's get out of here," said Jenks. The girl took her wrap and  Jenks helped her into it. Hand in hand they fled the place.    In the lobby their eyes met, and for the first time they realized they  were strangers. Yet deep in their hearts was a feeling that their fates  had been sealed.   
 and spill it, the better it will be for you. Where did you hide it?"    "I didn't hide it!" cried the teller, his voice trembling. "Mr. Trier  can tell you that I didn't touch it from the time I laid it down until I  turned back."    "That's right," replied the paymaster. "He turned his back on me for a  moment, and when he turned back, it was gone."    "So you're in on it too, are you?" said Sturtevant.    "What do you mean?" demanded the paymaster hotly.    "Oh nothing, nothing at all," replied the detective. "Of course Winston  didn't touch it and it disappeared and you never saw it go, although you  were within three feet of it all the time. Did _you_ see anything?" he  demanded of the guard.    "Nothing that I am sure of," answered the guard. "I thought that a  shadow passed in front of me for an instant, but when I looked again, it  was gone."    *       *       *       *       *    Dr. Bird sat forward suddenly. "What did this shadow look like?" he  asked.    "It wasn't exactly a shadow," said the guard. "It was as if a person had  passed suddenly before me so quickly that I couldn't see him. I seemed  to feel that there was someone there, but I didn't rightly _see_  anything."    "Did you notice anything of the sort?" demanded the doctor of Trier.    "I don't know," replied Trier thoughtfully. "Now that Williams has  mentioned it, I did seem to feel a breath of air or a motion as though  something had passed in front of me. I didn't think of it at the time."    "Was this shadow opaque enough to even momentarily obscure your vision?"  went on the doctor.    "Not that I am conscious of. It was just a breath of air such as a  person might cause by passing very rapidly."    "What made you ask Trier if he had the money when you turned around?" 
  "Again, please!" called Dr. Bird. "And stop when he faces us full."    The picture was repeated and stopped at the point indicated.    "Lights, please!" cried the doctor.    The lights flashed on and Dr. Bird rose to his feet, pulling up after  him the wilted figure of a middle-aged man.    "Gentlemen," said the doctor in ringing tones, "allow me to present to  you Professor James Kirkwood of the faculty of the Richton University,  formerly known as James Collier of the Bureau of Standards, and robber  of the First National Bank."    Detective-Captain Sturtevant jumped to his feet and cast a searching  glance at the captive.    "He's the man all right," he cried. "Hang on to him until I get a wagon  here!"    "Oh, shut up!" said Carnes. "He's under federal arrest just now, charged  with the possession of narcotics. When we are through with him, you can  have him if you want him."    "How did you get that picture, Doctor?" cried the cashier. "I watched  that cage every minute during the morning and I'll swear that man never  entered and stole that money as the picture shows, unless he managed to  make himself invisible."    *       *       *       *       *    "You're closer to the truth than you suspect, Mr. Rogers," said Dr.  Bird. "It is not quite a matter of invisibility, but something pretty  close to it. It is a matter of catalysts."    "What kind of cats?" asked the cashier.    "Not cats, Mr. Rogers, catalysts. Catalysts is the name of a chemical  reaction consisting essentially of a decomposition and a new combination  effected by means of a catalyst which acts on the compound bodies in  question, but which goes through the reaction itself unchanged. There  are a great many of them which are used in the arts and in  manufacturing, and while their action is not always clearly understood,  the results are well known and can be banked on. 
 the following cities:    New York                326 Broadway  Boston, Mass.        899 Boylston St.  Philadelphia, Pa.   1211 Chestnut St.  Baltimore, Md.    1215 N. Charles St.  Newark, N.J.            560 Broad St.    Home Study graduates may also attend any one of our resident schools for  post-graduate instruction at no extra charge.      _Graduates of RCA Institutes Find It Easier to Get Good Jobs_    Students of RCA Institutes get first-hand knowledge, get it quickly and  get it complete. Success in Radio depends upon training and that's the  training you get with RCA Institutes. That's why every graduate of RCA  Institutes who desired a position has been able to get one.... That's  why graduates are always in big demand!      _Study Radio at the Oldest and Largest Commercial Training Organization  in the World_    Send for this Free Book ... or step in at any of our resident schools  and see for yourself how thousands of men are already on the road to  success in Radio. Remember that you, too, can speed up your earning  capacity ... can earn more money in Radio than you ever earned before.  The man who trains today will hold down the big-money Radio job of the  future. Come in and get this free book or send for it by mail.  Everything you want to know about Radio. 40 fascinating pages, packed  with pictures and descriptions of the brilliant opportunities in this  gigantic, world-wide money-making profession.    =SEND FOR IT TODAY!=      Clip this Coupon _NOW_!    SPONSORED BY  RCA INSTITUTES, INC.    Formerly  Radio Institute of America    [Illustration: RCA]    *       *       *       *       * 
  _Kills 200,000,000 germs in 15 seconds_    *       *       *       *       *    Please mention NEWSSTAND GROUP--MEN'S LIST, when answering  advertisements    *       *       *       *       *      Go to School at Home!    [Illustration: High School Course in Two Years!]      You Want to Earn Big Money!    =And you will not be satisfied unless you earn steady promotion.= But  are you prepared for the job ahead of you? Do you measure up to the  standard that insures success? For a more responsible position a fairly  good education is necessary. To write a sensible business letter, to  prepare estimates, to figure cost and to compute interest, you must have  a certain amount of preparation. All this you must be able to do before  you will earn promotion.    Many business houses hire no men whose general knowledge is not equal to  a high school course. Why? Because big business refuses to burden itself  with men who are barred from promotion by the lack of elementary  education.      Can You Qualify for a Better Position    We have a plan whereby you can. We can give you a complete but  simplified high school course in two years, giving you all the  essentials that form the foundation of practical business. It will  prepare you to hold your own where competition is keen and exacting. Do  not doubt your ability, but make up your mind to it and you will soon  have the requirements that will bring you success and big money. YOU CAN  DO IT.    Let us show you how to get on the road to success. It will not cost you  a single working hour. Write today. It costs you nothing but a stamp.      American School 
   Over 500,000 men and women used Superba Remedy to help stop Cigarettes,  Cigars, Pipe, Chewing or Snuff. Write for full treatment on trial.  Contains no dope or habit forming drugs. Costs $2.00 if successful,  nothing if not. SUPERBA CO., A-11, Baltimore, Md.    *       *       *       *       *      Get Strong WITH    These Improved Muscle Builders    _All for $5.00_    [Illustration: Save $20.00 with this OFFER]    _Send no money_    GUARANTEE SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK    Why pay an extravagant price for strength--here's an opportunity to get  all the equipment you require along with an excellent course of  instructions for only $5.00. Realize your ambition and develop muscles  of a super-man. Get strong and amaze your friends. We show you how to  easily master feats which now seem difficult--or if you just want  physical culture for your health's sake, this equipment is just what you  need. With this special offer you save at least $20.00. We furnish a ten  cable chest expander which is adjustable to give resistance up to 200  lbs. It is made of new live extra strength, springy rubber so as to  ensure long wear and give the resistance you need for real muscle  development. You also get a pair of patented hand grips for developing  powerful grip and forearms.    We include wall exercising parts which permit you to develop your back,  arms and legs--a real muscle necessity. You know that business men and  athletes, too, first show their age in their legs. Develop your leg  muscles with the foot strap which we furnish. This will give you speed  and endurance--but that isn't all that you get. In addition we include a  specially written course which contains pictures and diagrams showing  you how to develop any part of your body so that you will quickly get on  with these exercises and gain the greatest advantage from their use. Act  now while you can get in on this special offer. It might be withdrawn, 
  HYPNOTIZE    [Illustration]      25 Lessons in Hypnotism, Mind Reading and Magnetic Healing. Tells how  experts hypnotize at a glance, make others obey their commands. How to  overcome bad habits, how to give a home performance, get on the stage,  etc. Helpful to every man and woman, executives, salesmen, doctors,  mothers, etc. Simple, easy. Learn at home. Only $1.10, including the  "Hypnotic Eye," a new aid for amateurs. Send stamps or M.O. (or pay  C.O.D. plus postage). Guaranteed. =Educator Press, 19 Park Row, New  York. Dept. H-41=    *       *       *       *       *      AVIATION Information FREE    Send us your name and address for full information regarding the  Aviation and Airplane business. Find out about the many great  opportunities now open and how we prepare you at home, during spare  time, to qualify. Our new book, _Opportunities in the Airplane industry_  also sent free if you answer at once.    AMERICAN SCHOOL OF AVIATION  Dept. 1182 3601 Michigan Ave. CHICAGO    *       *       *       *       *      Charming--Captivating--Irresistible    DESIR D'AMOUR  [Love's Desire]    [Illustration]    This exotic perfume goes straight to the heart like Cupid's arrows. Its  strength and mystic aroma thrills and delights young and old. Triple  strength full size vial 98 cents prepaid or $1.32 C.O.D. plus shipping  charges. Directions free. One bottle GRATIS if you order three vials.  MAGNUS WORKS, Box 12, Varick Sta., New York, N.Y., Dept. NSG-2.    *       *       *       *       *    Please mention NEWSSTAND GROUP--MEN'S LIST, when answering 
 of others.    Aviation is expanding to enormous proportions.    Electricity is getting bigger every day. Motor Bus building is becoming  a leading world industry.    Building of stores, homes, factories and office buildings is going on  all the time. No structure can be erected without plans drawn by a  draftsman. No machinery can be built without plans drawn by a draftsman.  I train you at home, in Drafting. Keep the job you have now while  learning.      Earn As You Learn    I tell you how to start earning extra money a few weeks after beginning  my training.    I will train you in drafting right where you are in your spare time. I  have trained men who are making $3,500.00 to $9,000.00 a year. Get  started now toward a better position, paying a good, straight salary,  the year around. Comfortable surroundings. Inside work.      Employment Service    After training you I help you to get a job without charging you a cent  for this service. Employers of Draftsmen come to me for men. Employers  know they are not taking chances on men trained by me.      No Experience Necessary    You do not need to be a college man nor high school graduate to learn by  this method. No previous experience necessary. I make a positive money  back guarantee with you before I begin to train you.    If you are now earning less than      $70.00 a WEEK    [Illustration: _I train you at home!_]    _Write For My FREE "Pay-Raising Plan"_    Mail this coupon at once. Get "My Pay-Raising Plan". It certainly points  the way to success. You owe it to yourself to send for this book. Find  out how I help you find big opportunities in practically all big  industries. The book will come to you post paid and FREE. Mail the  coupon for it today.    *       *       *       *       * 
