_More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand  for Clayton Magazines._    *       *       *       *       *          VOL. VI, No. 1            CONTENTS            APRIL, 1931      COVER DESIGN                  H. W. WESSO  _Painted in Water-Colors from a Scene in "Monsters of Mars."_    MONSTERS OF MARS              EDMOND HAMILTON             4  _Three Martian-Duped Earth-Men Swing Open the Gates of Space That for  So Long Had Barred the Greedy Hordes of the Red Planet._  (A Complete Novelette.)    THE EXILE OF TIME             RAY CUMMINGS               26  _From Somewhere Out of Time Come a Swarm of Robots Who Inflict on  New York the Awful Vengeance of the Diabolical Cripple Tugh._  (Beginning a Four-Part Novel.)    HELL'S DIMENSION              TOM CURRY                  51  _Professor Lambert Deliberately Ventures into a Vibrational Dimension  to Join His Fiancée in Its Magnetic Torture-Fields._    THE WORLD BEHIND THE MOON     PAUL ERNST                 64  _Two Intrepid Earth-Men Fight It Out with the Horrific Monsters of 
glimpsed. These gave way to allow their passage when their conductor  uttered a hissing order, and then they were moving down a shorter hall  at whose end also were guards. As these sprang aside before them, a  great door of massive metal they guarded moved softly upward,  disclosing a mighty circular hall or room inside. Their crocodilian  guide turned to them.    "The hall of the Martian Master," he hissed.    They passed inside with him. The great hall seemed to extend upward to  the giant cone's tip, thin light coming down from an opening there.  Upon the dull metal of its looming walls were running friezes of  lighter metal, grotesque representations of reptilian shapes that they  could but vaguely glimpse. Around the walls stood rank after rank of  guards.    At the hall's center was a low dias, and in a semicircle around and  behind it stood a half-hundred great crocodilian shapes. Randall  guessed even at the moment that they were the council of which their  conductor had named himself a member. But like Milton and Lanier, he  had eyes in that first moment only for the dais itself. For on it  was--the Martian Master.    Randall heard Milton and Lanier choke with the horror that shook his  own heart and brain as he gazed. It was not simply another great  crocodilian shape that sat upon that dais. It was a monstrous thing  formed by the joining of three of the great reptilian bodies! Three  distinct crocodile-like bodies sitting close together upon a metal  seat, that had but a single great head. A great, grotesque crocodilian  head that bulged backward and to either side, and that rested on the  three thick short necks that rose from the triple body! And that head,  that triple-bodied thing, was living, its unwinking eyes gazing at the  three men!    *       *       *       *       *    The Martian Master! Randall felt his brain reel as he gazed at that  mind-shattering thing. The Martian Master--this great head with three 
  *       *       *       *       *    But a moment they glimpsed it and then were in darkness again as the  tunnel passed through the radio-active strata and lower. The horror of  that moment's glimpse, though, made them strike out in blind  repulsion, but relentlessly the creature dragged them after it.    "God!" It was Lanier's panting cry as they were dragged on. "This worm  monster--we're hundreds of feet below the surface!"    Randall sought to reply, but his voice choked. The air about them was  close and damp, with an overpowering earthy smell. He felt  consciousness leaving him.    A gleam of soft light--they were passing more radio-active patches. He  felt the wild convulsive struggles of Lanier against the thing; and  then suddenly the tunnel ended, debouched into a far-stretching,  low-ceilinged cavity. It was feebly illuminated by radio-active  patches here and there in walls and ceiling, and as the monster that  held them halted on entering the cavity, Randall and Lanier lay in its  grip and stared across the weird place with intensified horror.    For it was swarming with countless worm monsters! All were like the  one who held them, thick long worm bodies with projecting tentacles  and with black eyeless faces. They were crawling to and fro in this  cavern far beneath the surface, swarming in hordes around and over  each other, pouring in and out of the awful place from countless  tunnels that led upward and downward from it!    *       *       *       *       *    A world of worm monsters, beneath the surface of the Martian jungles!  As Randall stared across that swarming, dim-lit cave of horror,  physically sick at sight of it, he remembered the countless tunnel  openings they had glimpsed in their flight through the jungle, and  remembered the remark of the Martian who had first guided them across 
Two hours later it was when Milton and Randall and Lanier and Nelson  turned to the laboratory's door. They paused to glance behind them. Of  the great matter-transmitter and receiver, of the apparatus that had  crowded the laboratory, there remained now but wreckage.    For that had been their first thought, their first task, when the  astounded Nelson had brought the three back to consciousness and had  heard their amazing tale. They had wrecked so completely the  matter-station and its actuating apparatus that none could ever have  guessed what a mechanism of wonder the laboratory a short time before  had held.    The cubical chambers had been smashed beyond all recognition, the  dynamos were masses of split metal and fused wiring, the batteries of  tubes were shattered, the condensers and transformers and wiring  demolished. And it had only been when the last written plans and  blue-prints of the mechanism had been burned that Milton and Randall  and Lanier had stopped to allow their exhausted bodies a moment of  rest.    *       *       *       *       *    Now as they paused at the laboratory's door, Lanier reached and swung  it open. Together, silent, they gazed out.    It all seemed to Randall exactly as upon the night before. The shadowy  masses in the darkness, the heaving, dim-lit sea stretching far away  before them, the curtain of summer stars stretched across the heavens.  And, sinking westward amid those stars, the red spark of Mars toward  which as though toward a magnet all their eyes had turned.    Milton was speaking. "Up there it has shone for centuries--ages--a  crimson spot of light. And up there the Martians have been watching,  watching--until at last we opened to them the gate."    Randall's hand was on his shoulder. "But we closed that gate, too, in  the end."    Milton nodded slowly. "We--or the fate that rules our worlds. But the  gate is closed, and God grant, shall never again be opened by any on  
looked at me. "Has it any back yard, George?"    "How should I know?" I retorted. "Probably has."    "Go on," Alten was prompting.    "That is nearly all. I found a doorway leading to a dark room. I  crawled through it toward a glow of light. I passed through another  room. I thought I was in a nightmare, and that this was my home. I  remembered that the cage had not moved. It had hardly lurched. Just  trembled; vibrated.    "But this was not my home. The rooms were small and dark. Then I  peered through a window on a strange stone street. And saw these  strange-looking young men. And that is all--all I can tell you."    She had evidently held herself calm by a desperate effort. She broke  down now, sobbing without restraint.      CHAPTER III    _Tugh, the Cripple_    The portals of this mystery had swung wide to receive us. The tumbling  events which menaced all our world of 1935 were upon us now. A  maelstrom. A torrent in the midst of which we were caught up like tiny  bits of cork and whirled away.    But we thought we understood the mystery. We believed we were acting  for the best. What we did was no doubt ill-considered; but the human  mind is so far from omniscient! And this thing was so strange!    Alten said, "You have a right to be overwrought, Mistress Mary Atwood.  But this thing is as strange to us as it is to you. I called that iron  monster a Robot. But it does not belong to our age: if it does I have  never seen one such as you describe. And traveling through Time--"    He smiled down at her. "That is not a commonplace everyday occurrence  to us, I assure you. The difference is that in this world of ours we  can understand--or at least explain--these things as being scientific.  And so they have not the terror of the supernatural."    Mary was calmer now. She returned his smile. "I realize that; or at  least I am trying to realize it."   
He recalled what had happened to him, but it seemed like a dream. The  back yard was then empty. He remembered vaguely that he had seen the  mechanism carry Mary and me into the cage, and that the cage had  vanished.    Larry knew that only a few moments had passed. The shots had aroused  the neighborhood. As he stood now against the house wall, dizzily  looking around, he was aware of calling voices from the nearby  windows.    Then Larry stumbled over Alten, who was lying on his face near the  kitchen doorway. Still alive, he groaned as Larry fell over him; but  he was unconscious.    Forgetting all about his weapon, Larry's first thought was to rush out  for help. He staggered through the dark kitchen into the front room,  and through the corridor into the street.    Patton Place, as before, was deserted. The houses were dark; the alarm  was all in the rear. There were no pedestrians, no vehicles, and no  sign of a policeman. Dawn was just coming; as Larry turned eastward he  saw, in a patch of clearing sky, stars paling with the coming  daylight.    *       *       *       *       *    With uncertain steps, out in the middle of the street, Larry ran  eastward through the middle of the street, hoping that at the next  corner he might encounter someone, or find a telephone over which he  might call the police.    But he had not gone more than five hundred feet when suddenly he  stopped; stood there wavering, panting, staring with whirling senses.  Near the middle of the street, with the faint dawn behind it, a ball  of gathering mist had appeared directly in his path. It was a  luminous, shining mist--and it was gathering into form!    In seconds a small, glowing cage of white luminous bars stood there in  the street, where there had just been nothing! It was not the  Time-traveling cage from the house yard he had just left. No--he knew 
all the rest of it! That was preferable to being judged a liar, or  insane.    *       *       *       *       *    And then, at about 9 P.M. on the evening of June 9, the first of the  mechanical monsters came stalking from the house on Patton Place--the  beginning of the revenge which Tugh had threatened when arrested. The  policeman at the corner--one McGuire--turned in the first hysterical  alarm. He rushed into a little candy and stationery store shouting  that he had seen a piece of machinery running wild. His telephone call  brought a squad of his comrades. The Robot at first did no damage.    McGuire later told how he saw it as it emerged from the entryway of  the Tugh house. It came lurching out into the street--a giant thing of  dull grey metal, with tubular, jointed legs; a body with a great  bulging chest; a round head, eight or ten feet above the pavement;  eyes that shot fire.    The policeman took to his heels. There was a commotion in Patton Place  during those next few minutes. Pedestrians saw the thing standing in  the middle of the street, staring stupidly around it. The head  wobbled. Some said that the eyes shot fire; others, that it was not  the eyes, but more like a torch in its mailed hand. The torch shot a  small beam of light around the street--a beam which was dull-red.    The pedestrians fled. Their cries brought people to the nearby house  windows. Women screamed. Presently bottles were thrown from the  windows. One of these crashed against the iron shoulder of the  monster. It turned its head: as though its neck were rubber, some  said. And it gazed upward, with a human gesture as though it were not  angry, but contemptuous.    But still, beyond a step or two in one direction or another, it merely  stood and waved its torch. The little dull-red beam of light carried  no more than twenty or thirty feet. The street in a few moments was 
Professor Lambert's bed. Suddenly I noticed a queer, shimmering,  greenish-blue light streaming down from the walls and ceiling of the  laboratory. I was right outside the place and though I cannot hear  anything, I was knocked down and I twisted and wriggled around like a  snake. It felt like something with a thousand little paws but with  great strength was pushing me every way. When there was a lull, and  the light had stopped for a few moments, I staggered to my feet and  ran madly for my own quarters, scared out of my head. As I went by the  kitchen, I saw Miss Crawford at the sink there, filling some vases and  arranging flowers as she usually did every morning.    "'If she called to me, I did not hear her or notice her lips moving. I  believe she came to the door.    "'I was going to quit, when I recovered myself, angry at what had  occurred; but then, I began to feel ashamed for being such a baby, for  Professor Lambert has been very good to me. About fifteen minutes  after I went to my room, I was able to return to the kitchen. Miss  Crawford was not there, though the flowers and vases were. Then, as I  started to work, still a little alarmed, Professor Lambert came  rushing into the kitchen, an expression of terror on his face. His  mouth was open, and I think he was calling. He then ran out, back to  the laboratory, and I have not seen Miss Madge since. Professor  Lambert has been almost continuously in the work-room since then,  and--I kept away from it, because I was afraid.'"    *       *       *       *       *    Two more members of Phillips' squad broke into the laboratory and came  toward the chief. They had been working at physical labor, for they  were still perspiring and one regarded his hands with a rueful  expression.    "Any luck?" asked Phillips eagerly.    "No, boss. We been all over the place, and we dug every spot we could 
However, he was unable to dissimulate. She felt his anguish for her  safety. "But I know now that you love me. I can feel it stronger than  ever before, John. It seems like a great rock to which I can always  cling, your love. It projects me from the hatred that these beasts  pour out against us."    Since they had no sense of time, they could not tell how long they  were allowed to remain unmolested. But in each other's company they  were happy, though each one was afraid for the safety of the loved  one.    They spoke of the mortal life they had lived, and their love. They  felt no need of food or water, but clung together in a dimensionless  universe, held up by love.    *       *       *       *       *    The lull came to an end, at last. There was no change in the coppery  vagueness about them which they sensed as the surrounding ether, but  all was changeless, boundless. Lambert, close to Madge Crawford, felt  that they were about to be attacked.    He had swift, temporary impressions of seeing saucerlike, unblinking  eyes, and then hordes of bizarre inhabitants started to climb up to  their perch.    For a short while, Lambert and Madge fought them off, thrusting at  them, seeming to push them backward down the intangible slope; the  cries which the dematerialized humans uttered also helped to hold the  leaders of the attacking army partially in check, but the vast number  of beings swept forward.    The thrusts of the torture-fields they emanated became more and more  racking, as the two unfortunates shuddered in horror and pain.    The power to demonstrate loud noise was evidently impossible to the  creatures, for their only sounds came to Madge Crawford and John  Lambert as long-drawn out, almost unbearable squeaks, mouse-like in  character. Perhaps they had never had the faculty of speech, since  they did not need it to communicate with one another; perhaps they 
  He opened a double panel in the shell's hull, and freed the little  animal. In an agony of suspense they watched it as it leaped onto the  bare lava and halted a moment....    "Seems to like it," said Joyce, drawing a great breath.    The rat, as though intoxicated by its sudden freedom, raced away out  of sight, covering eight or ten feet at a bound, its legs scurrying  ludicrously in empty air during its short flights.    "That means that we can dispense with oxygen helmets--and that we'd  better take our guns," said Wichter, his voice tense, his eyes  snapping behind his glasses.    He stepped to the gun rack. In this were half a dozen air-guns. Long  and of very small bore, they discharged a tiny steel shell in which  was a liquid of his invention that, about a second after the heat of  its forced passage through the rifle barrel, expanded instantly in  gaseous form to millions of times its liquid bulk. It was the most  powerful explosive yet found, but one that was beautifully safe to  carry inasmuch as it could be exploded only by heat.    "Are we ready?" he said, handing a gun to Joyce. "Then--let's go!"    *       *       *       *       *    But for a breath or two they hesitated before opening the heavy double  door in the side of the hull, savoring to the full the immensity of  the moment.    The rapture of the explorer who is the first to set foot on a vast new  continent was theirs, magnified a hundredfold. For they were the first  to set foot on a vast new planet! An entire new world, containing  heaven alone knew what forms of life, what monstrous or infinitesimal  creatures, lay before them. Even the profound awe they had experienced  when landing on the moon was dwarfed by the solemnity of this  occasion; just as it is less soul stirring to discover an arctic  continent which is perpetually cased in barren ice, than to discover a 
He drew a deep breath--and felt a dim pain in his back, caused by the  cramping position in which he had lain for so long.    He could have shouted aloud with the thrill of that discovery. This  was the first time he had felt his body at all! Did it mean that the  effect of the poison was wearing off--that it wasn't as lastingly  paralyzing to his earthly nerve centers as to those of Zeudian  creatures around them? He flexed the muscles of his leg. The leg moved  a fraction of an inch.    "Dorn!" he called softly, "I can move a little! Can you?"    "Yes," Wichter answered, "I've been able to wriggle my fingers for  several minutes. I think I could walk in an hour or two."    "Then pray for that hour or two. It might mean our escape!" Joyce told  him of the seldom used entrance that he thought led to the open air.  "I'm sure it goes to the surface, Dorn. Those woody looking tubers had  been freshly picked."    *       *       *       *       *    Three of the two-legged monsters came in just then. They relapsed into  lifeless silence. There was a horrible moment as the three paused over  them longer than any of the others had. Was it obvious that the  effects of the numbing poison was wearing off? Would they be bitten  again--or eaten?    The Zeudians finally moved on, hissing and clicking to each other.  Eventually the cold-blooded things fed, and dragged lethargically out  of the cave in the direction of the pit.    With every passing minute Joyce could feel life pouring back into his  numbed body. His cramped muscles were in agony now--a pain that gave  him fierce pleasure. At last, risking observation, he lifted his head  and then struggled to a sitting position and looked around.    No Zeudian was in sight. Evidently they were too sure of their poison  glands to post a guard over them. He listened intently, and could hear 
charges of yours a year ago?" he said. "Have you forgotten the  disgrace to me that followed?--the stigma that forced me to disappear  for months? You fool, do you think I've forgotten?--or that I'd let  you--"    "Quade," interrupted the older man, "you know very well you were  guilty. I caught you red-handed. You didn't fool anyone--except the  jury that let you go. So save your breath, and, if you've the sense  you were born with, release my daughter and me. Why, you're crazy!" he  cried with mounting anger. "You can't get away with this! I'll have  you in jail within forty-eight hours, once I get back to the surface!"    With an effort Quade controlled his feelings and assumed his oily,  sarcastic manner. "That's just it," he said: "'once you get back!' How  stupid you are! You don't seem to realize that you're not going back  to the surface. You and your daughter."    Sue gasped, and her father's eyes went wide. There was a tense  silence.    "You wouldn't dare!" the inventor cried finally. "You wouldn't dare!"    "It's rather large, this cavern," Quade went on. "You'll have plenty  of room. Perhaps I'll untie you before I go back up, so--"    "You can't get away with it!" shouted the old man, tremendously  excited. "Why, you can't, possibly! Philip Holmes'll track you  down--he'll tell the police--he'll rescue us! And then--"    Quade smiled suavely. "Oh, no, he won't. Perhaps you remember the shot  that sounded from the water-hole? Well, when I and my assistant, Juan,  heard Holmes say he was going for water, I told Juan to follow him to  the water-hole and bind him, to keep him from interfering till I got  back up. But Mr. Holmes is evidently of an impulsive disposition, and  must have caused trouble. Juan, too, is impulsive; he is a Mexican.  And he had a gun. I'm afraid he was forced to use it.... I am quite  sure Philip Holmes will not, as you say, track me down."    David Guinness looked at his daughter's white face and horror-filled  eyes and suddenly crumpled. Humbly, passionately, he begged Quade to  take her back up. "Why, she's never done anything to you, Quade!" he 
  "You couldn't desert us, Quade. You haven't the guts. You haven't the  guts."    His face and eyes burned with the contempt that was in his words. It  cut Quade to the raw. But he could not avoid Phil's eyes. He stared at  them for a full moment, trembling slightly. Slowly, by inches, he  started to back toward the sphere; then suddenly he ran for it with  all his might, Holmes after him. Quade got to it first, and inside, as  he yanked in the searchlight and slammed and locked the door, he  yelled:    "You'll see, you damned pup! You'll see!" And there was the smothered  sound of half-maniacal laughter....    Phil threw all his weight against the metal door, but it was hopeless  and he knew it. He had gathered himself for another rush when he heard  Guinness yell:    "Back, Phil--back! He'll turn on the side disintegrators!"    Mad with rage as the young man was, he at once saw the danger and  leaped away--only to almost fall over the professor's prone body. With  hurrying, trembling fingers he untied the pair's bonds, and they  struggled to their feet, cramped and stiff. Then it was Phil who  warned them.    "Back as far as you can! Hurry!" He grabbed Sue's hand and plunged  toward the uncertain protection of a huge rock far in the rear. At  once he made them lie flat on the ground.    *       *       *       *       *    As yet the sphere had not stirred nor emitted a whisper of sound,  though they knew the man inside was conning the controls in a fever of  haste to leave the cavern. But they hadn't long to wait. There came a  sputter, a starting cough from the rocket tubes beneath the sphere.  Quickly they warmed into life, and the dully glimmering ball rocked in  the hole it lay in. Then a cataract of noise unleashed itself; a  devastating thunder roared through the echoing cavern as the rockets 
  They could not go around it. The ledge was only a few feet wide, and  blocked at each side.    "Got to cross!" Phil said tersely.    Quade, sickly-faced, stared down. "There--there might be other things  in that water!" he gasped. "Monsters!"    "Sure," agreed Phil contemptuously. "You'd better stay here." He  turned to the others. "I'll see how deep it is," he said, and without  the faintest hesitation dove flatly in.    Oily ripples washed back, and they saw his head poke through,  sputtering. "Not deep," he said. "Chest-high. Come on."    He reached for Sue, helped her down, and did the same for her father.  Holding each by the hand, Sue's head barely above the water, he  started across. They had not gone more than twenty feet when they  heard Quade, left on the bank, give a hoarse yell of fear and dive  into the water. Their dread pursuer had caught up with them.    And it followed--on the water! Phil had hoped it would not be able to  cross, but once more the thing's astounding adaptability dashed his  hopes. Without hesitation, the whitish jelly sprawled out over the  water, rolling after them with ghastly, snake-like ripples, its pallid  body standing out gruesomely against the black, odorous tide.    Quade came up thrashing madly, some feet to the side of the other  three. He was swimming--and swimming with such strength that he  quickly left them behind. He would be across before they; and that  meant there was a good chance that the earth-borer would go up again  with only one passenger....    Phil fought against the water, pulling Sue and her father forward as  best he could. From behind came the rippling sound of their shapeless  pursuer. "Ten feet more--" Holmes began--then abruptly stopped.    There had been a swish, a ripple upstream. And as their heads turned  they saw the water part and a black head, long, evil, glistening,  pointing coldly down to where they were struggling towards the shore.  Phil Holmes felt his strength ooze out. He heard Professor Guinness  gasp:    "A water-snake!"    *       *       *       *       * 
father's great Arizona ranch, to be a freshman in the School of Mines  at El Paso, where I was then an instructor in geology. We have knocked  about queer corners of the world together for a good many years. But  he is still but a great boy, with the bluff, simple manners of the  West.    "Do you think we can land?" I asked.    "Looks like we've got to," he said, grimly.    "And what after that?"    "How should I know? We have the sledge, tent, furs. Food, and fuel for  the primus to last a week. There's the rifle, but it must be a  thousand miles to anything to shoot. We can do our best."    "We should have had an extra prop."    "Of course. But it was so many pounds, when every pound counted. And  who knew the thing would break?"    "We'll never get out on a week's provisions."    "Not a shot! Too bad to disappoint Captain Harper." Ray grinned wanly.  "He ought to have the _Albatross_ around there by this time, waiting  for us." The _Albatross_ was the ship which had left us at Little  America a few months before, to steam around and pick us up at our  destination beyond Enderby Land. "We're in the same boat with Major  Meriden and his wife--and all those others. Lost without a trace."    "You've read Scott's diary--that he wrote after he visited the pole in  1912--the one they found with the bodies?"    "Yes. Not altogether cheerful. But we won't be trying to get out. No  use of that." He looked at me suddenly, grinning again. "Say, Jim, why  not try for that shining mountain we saw? It looks queer enough to be  interesting. We ought to make it in a week."    "I'm with you," I said.    *       *       *       *       *    I did not speak again, for the jagged ice-peaks were coming rather  near. I held my breath as the little plane veered around a slender 
  "Meriden!" Ray turned to me. "I bet this is a daughter of the major  and his wife!"    "Father was the major," the girl said slowly. "He and mother came in a  machine that flew, from a far land. The Things burned the machine with  the red fire. They came here and the Things kept them. They made  mother sing over the water. They killed father. I never saw him."    "I know," Ray, said gently. "We came from the same land. We saw your  father's machine above."    "You came from outside! And you are going back? Oh, take me with you!  Take me!" Piteous pleading was in her voice. "It is so--lonely since  the Things took Mother away. Mother told me that sometime men would  come, and take me away to see the people and the outside that she told  me of. Oh, please take me!"    "Don't worry! You go along whenever we leave--if we can get out."    "Oh, I am so glad! You are very good!"    Impulsively, she threw her arms around Ray's neck. Gently, he  disengaged himself, flushing a little. I noticed, however, that he did  not seem particularly displeased.    "But can we get out?"    "Mother and I tried. We could never get out. The Things watch. They  make me come to the water to sing, when the great bell rings."    "Are these things goods to eat?" I motioned to the brilliant fungal  forest. I had begun to fear that Ray would never get to this very  important topic.    Blue eyes regarded me. "Eat? Oh, you are hungry! Come! I have food."    *       *       *       *       *    Like a child, she grasped Ray's hand, pulled him toward the mushroom  jungle. I followed, and we slipped in between the brilliantly golden,  fleshy stalks. They rose to the tangle of bright feathery fringes  above, huge and substantial as the trunks of trees.    
metal ladder.    As we climbed, I could hear the haunting melody of Mildred's wordless  song coming faint across the distance. Once I glanced back for a  moment, and glimpsed her tiny white figure above the black water, with  the thousands of green antennae rising in a luminous forest about her.    We reached the top of the cliff, where the opalescent river plunged  down in the flaming fall. Ray chose convenient boulders for shelter  and quickly we flung ourselves flat. Ray replaced the fired cartridges  in the rifle and leveled it across the rock before him. I unslung the  binoculars and focussed them.    "Watch 'em close," Ray muttered. "And tell me when to shoot."    *       *       *       *       *    The black lake lay below us, with the weird city of sapphire cylinders  on its floor. I got the glasses upon Mildred's white form. Soon she  dived from the turquoise pedestal, swam swiftly ashore and vanished in  the vivid fungous jungle. The wavering green antennae vanished below  the water; I watched the crabs swimming away. Some of them climbed out  of the water and lumbered off in various directions.    In fifteen minutes the slender white form of Mildred appeared at the  foot of the ladder. She sprang over the dead crabs and scrambled  nimbly up. Soon she was halfway up the face of the cliff, and there  had been no sign of discovery. My hopes ran high.    I was sweeping the whole plain with the binoculars, while Ray peered  through the telescopic sights of the rifle. Suddenly I saw a giant  crab pause as he lumbered along the edge of the black lake. He rose  upright; his shining green antennae wavered. Then I saw him reaching  with a knobbed claw for a slender silver tube slung to his harness.    "Quick! The one by the lake! To the right of that canal!"    I pointed quickly. Ray swung his gun about, aimed. A broad red beam  
danger into which we were passing--had passed. We were in the midst of  a veritable swarm of meteorites of all sizes.    They were not large; I believe the largest I saw had a mass of not  more than three or four times that of the _Ertak_ herself. Some of the  smaller bodies were only fifty or sixty feet in diameter.    They were jagged and irregular in shape, and they seemed to spin at  varying speeds, like tiny worlds.    As I watched, fixing my view now on the space directly in our path, I  saw that our disintegrator ray men were at work. Deep in the bowels of  the _Ertak_, the moan of the ray generators had deepened in note; I  could even feel the slight vibration beneath my feet.    One of the meteorites slowly crumbled on top, the dust of  disintegration hovering in a compact mass about the body. More and  more of it melted away. The spinning motion grew irregular, eccentric,  as the center of gravity was changed by the action of the ray.    Another ray, two more, centered on the wobbling mass. It was directly  in our path, looming up larger and larger every second.    Faster and faster it melted, the rays eating into it from four sides.  But it was perilously near now; I had to reduce power in order to keep  all of it within the field of my disc. If--    The thing vanished before the very nose of the ship, not an instant  too soon. I glanced up at the surface temperature indicator, and saw  the big black hand move slowly for a degree or two, and stop. It was a  very sensitive instrument, and registered even the slight friction of  our passage through the disintegrated dust of the meteorite.    *       *       *       *       *    Our rays were working desperately, but disintegrator rays are not  nearly so effective in space as in an atmosphere of some kind. Half a 
instantly, any orders that may be issued: I know that last remark is  not needed. If any of you should see or learn something of interest or  value, report at once to Mr. Correy, Mr. Kincaide or my--"    A simultaneous, involuntary exclamation from the men interrupted me,  and it was not surprising that this was so, for the wall before us had  suddenly opened, and there was a great burst of yellow light in our  faces. A strong odor, like the faint scent we had first noticed in the  air, but infinitely more powerful, struck our nostrils, but I was not  conscious of the fact for several seconds. My whole attention, my  every startled thought, was focused upon the group of strange beings,  silhouetted against the glowing light, that stood in the opening.    *       *       *       *       *    Imagine, if you can, a huge globe, perhaps eight feet in diameter,  flattened slightly at the bottom, and supported on six short, huge  stumps, like the feet of an elephant, and topped by an excrudescence  like a rounded coning tower, merging into the globular body. From  points slightly below this excrudescence, visualize six long, limp  tentacles, so long that they drop from the equators of these animated  spheres, and trail on the ground. Now you have some conception of the  beings that stood before us.    A sharp, sibilant whispering came from one of these figures, to be  answered in an eager chorus from our bearers. There was a reply like a  command, and the group in the doorway marched forward. One by one  these visible tentacles wrapped themselves around a member of the  _Ertak's_ crew, each one of the globular creatures bearing one of us.    I heard a disappointed whisper go up from the outer darkness where,  but a moment before, we had been. Then there was a grating sound, and  a thud as the stone doorway was rolled back into place.    The entrance was sealed. We were prisoners indeed!  
of the theories of many brilliant scientific minds of  today--humbly combined with perhaps some originality of my  own. The mind flings far afield when it starts to grope with  the Unknown. Try it! Read what I have written and then let  your mind roam a little further. Probe a little deeper.  Perhaps we may contribute something. It is only by that  process--each mind following some other's cleared path and  pushing forward a little on his own--that the Unknown can be  pierced.    When once you admit the basic idea of Time-traveling to be  plausible, what fascinating vistas are opened to the  imagination!    Space is so crowded! The room in which you are now sitting  as you read these words--just think what that Space around  you has held in the Past, and will hold in the Future! You  occupy it now, playing out your little part; but think what  has happened where you are now sitting so calmly reading!  What tumultuous, crowding events! Your room is quiet now,  but its space has rung with war-cries; the ground under you  has been drenched with blood; and further back it was lush  with primeval jungle; and in another age it was frozen  beneath a great ice-cap; and before that it blazed, molten  with fire. Back to the Beginning.    And your little Space in the Future? It will be in the heart  of a great mechanical city, perhaps. A mechanical servant  may murder his human master in the space which you now call 
