for Clayton Magazines._    *       *       *       *       *          VOL. VI, No. 2            CONTENTS            MAY, 1931      COVER DESIGN                  H. W. WESSO    _Painted in  Water-Colors from a Scene in "Dark Moon._"      DARK MOON                     CHARLES W. DIFFIN        148    _Mysterious, Dark, Out of the Unknown Deep Comes a New Satellite to  Lure Three Courageous Earthlings on to Strange Adventure._  (_A Complete Novelette._)      WHEN CAVERNS YAWNED           CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK       198    _Only Dr. Bird's Super-Scientific Sleuthing Stands in the Way of  Ivan Sarnoff's Latest Attempt at Wholesale Destruction._      THE EXILE OF TIME             RAY CUMMINGS             216    _Young Lovers of Three Eras Are Swept down the Torrent of the Sinister  Cripple Tugh's Frightful Vengeance._ (Part Two of a Four-Part Novel.)      WHEN THE MOON TURNED GREEN    HAL K. WELLS             241    _Outside His Laboratory Bruce Dixon Finds a World of Living Dead  Men--and Above, in the Sky, Shines a Weird Green Moon._   
He laughed aloud at the bewilderment on the pilot's face.    "Chet," he said slowly, and his voice was pitched to a more serious  tone, "out there is a new world, the Dark Moon. 'Tremendous density,'  they said. That means it can hold an atmosphere of its own. It means  new metals, new wealth. It means a new little world to explore, and  it's out there waiting for us. Waiting for us; we will be the first.  For here is the ship that will take us.    "It isn't mine, Chet; it's ours. And the adventure is ours; yours and  mine, both. We only meant to go a few hundred miles at first, but  here's something big. We may never come back--it's a long chance that  we're taking--but you're in on it, if you want to go...."    He paused. The expression in the eyes of Chet Bullard, master-pilot of  the world, was answer enough. But Chet amplified it with explosive  words.    "Am I in on it?" he demanded. "Try to count me out--just try to do it!  I was game for a trial flight out beyond. And now, with a real  objective to shoot at--a new world--"    His words failed him. Walt Harkness knew that the hand the other  extended was thrust forth blindly; he gripped at it hard, while he  turned to look at the shining ship.    But his inner gaze passed far beyond the gleaming thing of metal, off  into a realm of perpetual night. Out there a new world was waiting--a  Dark Moon!--and there they might find.... But his imagination failed  him there; he could only thrill with the adventure that the unknown  held.      CHAPTER II    _Escape_    Two days, while a cold sun peeped above an icy horizon! Two days of  driving, eager work on the installation of massive motors--yet motors  so light that one man could lift them--then Harkness prepared to  leave.    "Wealth brings care when it comes," he told Chet, "but it leaves  plenty of trouble behind it when it goes. I must get back to New York  and throw what is left of my holdings to the wolves; they must be 
dark. Within the control room Walter Harkness grinned happily as he  drew his bruised body from the place where he had been thrown, and  brought the ship to an even keel.    *       *       *       *       *    Nice work! But there was other work ahead, and the smile of  satisfaction soon passed. He held the nose up, and the wireless  warning went out before as the wild climb kept on.    Forty thousand was passed; then fifty and more; a hundred thousand;  and at length he was through the repelling area, that zone of  mysterious force, above which was a magnetic repulsion nearly  neutralizing gravity. He could fly level now; every unit of force  could be used for forward flight to hurl him onward faster and faster  into the night.    Harkness was flying where his license was void; he was flying, too,  where all aircraft were banned. But the rules of the Board of Control  meant nothing to him this night. Nor did the voluble and sulphurous  orders to halt that a patrol-ship flashed north. The patrol-ship was  on station; she was lost far astern before she could gather speed for  pursuit.    Walter Harkness had caught his position upon a small chart. It was a  sphere, and he led a thin wire from the point that was Vienna to a dot  that he marked on the sub-polar waste. He dropped a slender pointer  upon the wire and engaged its grooved tip, and then the flying was out  of his hands. The instrument before him, with its light bulbs and  swift moving discs, would count their speed of passage; it would hold  the ship steadily upon an unerring course and allow for drift of  winds. The great-circle course was simple; the point he marked was  drawing them as if it had been a magnet--drawing them as it drew the  eyes of Walt Harkness, staring strainingly ahead as if to span the  thousands of miles of dark.      CHAPTER III 
The air was alive with darting forms. Harkness saw them plainly  now--great trailing streamers of speed that shot downward from the  heights. The sun caught them in their flight to make iridescent  rainbow hues that would have been beautiful but for the hideous heads,  the sucker-discs that lined the bodies and the one great disc that  cupped on the end of each thrusting snout.    And beneath those that fell from on high was a cluster of the same  sinister, writhing shapes which clung to a speeding ship that rolled  and swung vainly in an effort to shake them off.    The coiling, slashing serpent-forms had fastened to the doomed ship.  Their thrashing bodies streamed out behind it. They made a cluster of  flashing color whose center point was a tiny airship, a speedster, a  gay little craft. And her sides shone red as blood--red as they had  shone on the grassy lawn of an old chateau near far-off Vienna.    "It's Diane!" Harkness was shouting. "Good Lord, Chet, it's Diane!"    This girl he had told himself he would forget. She was there in that  ship, her hands were wrenching at the controls in a fight that was  hopeless. He saw her so plainly--a pitiful, helpless figure, fighting  vainly against this nightmare attack.    Only an instant of blurred wonderment at her presence up there--then a  frenzy possessed him. He must save her! He leaped to the side of the  crouching pilot, but his outstretched hands that clutched at the  control stopped motionless in air.    *       *       *       *       *    Chet Bullard, master-pilot of the first rank, upon whose chest was the  triple star that gave him authority to command all the air-levels of  earth, was tense and crouching. His eyes were sighting along an  instrument of his own devising as if he were aiming some super-gun of  a great air cruiser.    But he was riding the projectile itself and guiding it as he rode. He  threw the ship like a giant shell in a screaming, sweeping arc upon 
him.    "That bright star went out," she said; and Harkness let his gaze  follow where she pointed.    The stars that were distant suns shone in brilliant points of light;  no atmosphere here to dim them or cause a flickering. A bright point  vanished as she looked--another!--and he knew abruptly that he was  seeing a circle of blackness that moved slowly between them and the  stars.    "The Moon!" he shouted. "The Dark Moon!" And now his hand found the  controls that threw their ship into thunderous life. It was  approaching! He swung the metal ball to throw them ahead and to one  side, and the roar from the stern told of the fast-growing speed that  was pressing them to the floor....    *       *       *       *       *    An hour of wild flight, and the circle was close upon them. Too  faintly lighted to register in the telescopes of Earth, there was  still enough of luminosity to mark it as a round disc of violet that  grew dimly bluish-green around the edge.    It ceased to grow. Their ship, Harkness knew, was speeding beside it  some hundreds of miles away. But they were within its gravitational  pull, and were falling toward it. And he aimed his ship bow-on to make  the forward blast a check upon their falling speed.    The circle broadened; became a sphere; and then they were plunging  through clouds more tenuous than any vapors of Earth--thick layers of  gas that reflected no rays from the distant sun.    Beside them a sinuous form showed where a serpent of space was trying  to match their speed. Harkness saw it twisting convulsively in the  stratum of gas; it was falling, lifeless, beside them as they sped on  and away. Here was something the beasts could not combat. He made a  mental note of the fact, but his thoughts flashed again to what lay  ahead.    Every eye was held close to the lookouts that faced forward. The three 
during the long night.    *       *       *       *       *    "We will rip the big web out with detonite," Harkness told the others  when morning came. "But I want to get the spider, too."    A touch upon the web with a stick brought an instant response. Again  they saw in all its repulsiveness the thing that seemed a creature of  some horrible dream. The eyes glared, while hairy feelers seized the  web and shook it in furious rage. Harkness, fearing another discharge  of the nauseating, viscous liquid, withdrew with the others far back  in the cave.    "Wait," he told them. "I have a plan."    The creature vanished, and Harkness went cautiously forward to the  web. He took a detonite cartridge from his belt and placed it on the  floor close to the ropy strands. Another, and another, until he had a  close-packed circle of the deadly things. Then he placed a heavy,  metallic piece of rock beside them and proceeded, with infinite care,  to build a tower.    One irregular block upon another: it was like a child at play with his  toys. Only now the play was filled with deadly menace. The stones  swayed, then held in precarious, leaning uncertainty; the topmost was  directly above the cartridges on the floor.    "Back!" he ordered the others, "and lie flat on the floor. I must  guess at the amount of explosive for the job."    Chet and Diane were safe as Harkness weighed a fragment of metal in  his hand. One throw--and he must not hit the tower he had built....  The rock struck into the network of cords; he saw it clinging where it  struck, and saw the web shaking with the blow.    Over his shoulder, as he ran, he glimpsed the onrush of the beast.  Again the eyes were glaring, again the feelers were shaking furiously  at the web. They touched the leaning stones!    He had reached the place where Chet and Diane lay and saw the 
The blue discoloration of the wound must have been plain in its  significance. The hairless one sprang abruptly to his feet and darted  toward a cave. He was back in a moment; and, though be approached with  wriggling humility, he reached the girl and he ventured to touch the  discolored hand with a sticky paste. He had a gourd that he held to  the girl's lips.    Harkness would have struck it away; he was beside himself with grief.  But Chet interposed.    "Give it to her," he said in a sharp, strained voice that told of his  own dismay. "I think the beggar knows what he's about. He is trying to  help."    The lips were lax; only a little of the liquid found its way down her  throat. But Harkness, after minutes of agony, saw the first flutter of  lids that betokened returning life....      CHAPTER X    "_But Awfully Dumb...._"    Harkness would never forget the helpless body in his arms, nor the  tender look that came slowly to the opened eyes that gazed so steadily  into his. And yet it was Chet that she seemed to want for the thousand  little services during the week that followed. And Harkness tried to  still the hurt in his heart, and he told himself that it was her  happiness be wanted more than his; that if she found greater pleasure  in having Chet near, then his love was unworthy if it placed itself as  a bar to that other happiness.    He talked by signs with the hairless one whom he called Towahg. It was  the sound the other made as he struck upon his chest. And he learned  that Towahg could guide him to the ship.    The tribe had left them alone. Only Towahg seemed inclined to  friendliness; and Harkness frequently saw the one who was their leader  in ugly, silent contemplation of them when Towahg brought food and  water to their cave.    Diane was recovering, but her progress was slow. She was able at once  to walk and go slowly about, but the least exertion tired her. It had  been a close call, Harkness knew, and he realized that some time must 
temperature of boiling water at a depth of less than a mile. The  center of the earth is roughly 4,000 miles below the surface.    "Because of this intense internal heat of the earth it would probably  be impossible to maintain permanent laboratories at greater depths  than two miles," said the lecturer, "and, in addition, the  installation and maintenance of Plutonic laboratories will be a  scientific adventure of great difficulty and expense. Yet, if carried  on in connection with the work of existing mines and borings it may  mark the coming decade as one of the important epochs in man's attempt  to understand the earth.    "These Plutonic laboratories, placed at various depths under the  surface, fully equipped with modern scientific apparatus, and  maintained indefinitely, will contribute to our knowledge in a dozen  important fields of geophysic and astronomy."    What Prof. Shapley pointed to as merely a possible by-product of the  proposed scientific "descent into Hades" is the commercial possibility  of tapping the earth's internal source of heat. There is 31,000,000  times as much natural heat in the earth than in all the coal resources  of the world. He stated that Sir Charles Parsons and John L. Hodgson,  both noted British engineers, are already engaged in work on this  problem.          When Caverns Yawned    _By Captain S. P. Meek_    [Illustration: From the bump on the side of the submarine came a flash  of red light.]    [Sidenote: Only Dr. Bird's super-scientific sleuthing stands in the  way of Ivan Saranoff's latest attempt at wholesale destruction.]      Bells jangled discordantly. A whistle split the air with a piercing  note. A band blared away on the platform. With a growing rumble of  sound, the Presidential special slowly gathered headway. The President  waved a final farewell to the crowds at the platform and sat down. He  chatted cheerily with his companions until the train was clear of  Charleston, then rose, and with a word to the others stepped into the  car. Operative Carnes of the United States Service slumped back in  his chair with a sigh of relief.    
precious load of yellow powder. Four hours later they dropped to a  landing at Langley Field.    "Now, Carnes," said the doctor as they debarked from the plane, "there  is work ahead. It may be too late to do much to-night, but we have no  time to waste. Get Bolton on the wire and tell him that we have  positive evidence that Saranoff is still alive and still up to his  devil's tricks. Start every man of the secret service and every  Department of Justice agent that can be spared on the trail. He can't  live underground all the time, and you ought to get on his tracks  somehow. I'm going up to the laboratory and see what I can do with  this stuff. Report to me there to-morrow morning."    Carnes hurried away. Bolton, the chief of the United States Secret  Service, had long ago recovered from any professional jealousy he had  ever felt of Dr. Bird. The doctor's message that Ivan Saranoff, the  arch-enemy of society, the head of the Young Labor party, the  unofficial chief of the secret Soviet forces in the United States, was  alive and again in the field against law and order was enough to set  in motion every force that he controlled. Waving aside precedent and  crashing his way past secretaries, he set in motion not only the  agents of the Department of Justice but also the post-office forces  and the specialized but highly efficient Military and Naval  Intelligence Divisions. The telephone and telegraph wires from  Washington were kept busy all night carrying orders and bringing in  reports. But despite all this activity, it was with a disappointed  face that Operative Carnes sought the doctor in the morning.    *       *       *       *       *    Dr. Bird was in his private laboratory on the third floor of the  Bureau of Standards. When Carnes entered he was seated in a chair at  his desk. His black eyes shone out from a chalky face like two burned  holes in a blanket. Carnes started at the appearance of utter 
north and south. Besides Carnes and the doctor, the car held two men  from the Bureau. As they climbed out, Carnes saw that one of them  carried a portable radio sending set, while the other bore an  electroscope and a rubber rod. The radio operator set up his device,  while the other man rubbed his coat sleeve briskly with the hard  rubber and then touched the ball of the electroscope with it. The two  bits of gold-leaf spread out.    "While we're waiting, I'll explain something of this to you, Carnes,"  said the doctor. "At four hundred-yard intervals are men with  electroscopes like this one. My attempt to locate Saranoff by means of  wave detectors was a failure. That proved that the ray he was using is  not of the wave type. The other common ray is the cathode ray type  which does not consist of vibrations but of a stream of electrons,  negative particles of electricity, traveling in straight lines of high  velocity. He must be knocking loose some of the electrons when he  collapses the atoms. The rate of discharge of these electroscopes will  give us a clue to the nearness of his device."    *       *       *       *       *    "Once you locate him, how do you propose to attack him?"    "The obvious method, that of using his own ray against him, fell down.  However, in attempting to produce it, I stumbled on another weapon  which may be equally effective. I am going to try to use an exact  opposite of his ray. The cathode ray, when properly used, will bombard  the atoms and knock electrons loose. I perfected last night a device  on which I have been working for months. It is a super-cathode ray. I  tested it on the yellow powder and find that I can successfully  reverse Saranoff's process. He can contract matter together until it  occupies less than one one-thousandth of its original volume. My ray  will destroy this effect and restore matter to something like its  original condition." 
murdered. There was only a negro tale of an apparition which had  appeared in the garden and murdered the master.    Larry and I have found cursory mention of that. But I doubt if the  group of My Lord Howe's gay young blades who were sent north to  capture Major Atwood ever reported exactly what happened to them. The  old Dutch ferryman divulged that he had been hired to ferry the  homecoming major; this, too, is recorded. But Tony Green and his  fellow officers, sent to apprehend the colonial major, found him  inexplicably murdered; and by dawn they were back at the Bowling  Green, white-faced and shaken.    They told some of what had happened to them, but not all. They could  not expect to be believed, for instance, if they said that though they  were unafraid of a negro's tale of a ghost, they had themselves  encountered two ghosts, and had fled the premises!    Those two ghosts were only Larry and Tina!    The negro babbled of a shining cage appearing in the garden. That, of  course, was undoubtedly set down as nonsense. Tony Green and his  friends went to the garden and examined the body of Major Atwood. What  had killed him no one could say. No bullet had struck him. There were  no wounds, no knife thrust, no sword slash. Tony held the lantern with  its swaying yellow glow close to the murdered man's body. The August  night was warm; the garden, banked by trees and shrubbery, was  breathless and oppressively hot; yet the body of Atwood seemed frozen!  He had been dead but a short while, and already the body was stiff.  More than that, it was ice cold. The face, the brows were wet as  though frost had been there and now was melted!    Tony Green's hand shook as he held the lantern. He tried to tell his  comrades that Atwood had died from failure of the heart. Undoubtedly  it was that. He had seen what he supposed was an apparition;  something had frightened him; and a weak heart had brought his death.    *       *       *       *       * 
scroll of Time--forever. The birth of a star, its lifetime, its death;  your birth, and mine; your death, and mine--all are there. Unchanging.    Once you have that fundamental conception, there can be no confusion  in the rest. We feel, because we move along the scroll of Time for the  little journey of our life, that Time moves; but it does not. We say,  The past did exist; the future will exist. The past is gone and the  future has not yet come. But that is fatuous and absurd. It is merely  our _consciousness_ which travels from one successive event to  another.    Why and how we move along the scroll of Time, is scientifically simple  to grasp. Conceive, for instance, an infinitely long motion picture  film. Each of its tiny pictures is a little different from the other.  Casting your viewpoint--your consciousness--successively along the  film, gives _motion_.    The same is true of the Eternal Time-scroll. Motion is merely a  _change_. There is no absolute motion, but only the comparison of two  things relatively slightly different. We are conscious of one state of  affairs--and then of another state, by comparison slightly different.    *       *       *       *       *    As early as 1930, they were groping for this. They called it the  Theory of Intermittent Existence--the Quantum Theory--by which they  explained that nothing has any Absolute Duration. You, for instance,  as you read this, exist instantaneously; you are non-existent; and you  exist again, just a little changed from before. Thus you pass, not  with a flow of persisting existence, but by a series of little jerks.  There is, then, like the illusion of a motion picture film, only a  pseudo-movement. A change, from one existence to the next.    And all this, with infinite care, the Creator engraved upon the scroll  of Time. Our series of little pictures are there--yours and mine.    But why, and how, scientifically do we progress along the Time-scroll?  Why? In 2930, they told me that the gentle Creator gave each of us a 
  We entered 1,000,000 B. C. A movement of Migul, the mechanism,  attracted my attention. He left us at the window and went to his  controls.    "What is it?" I demanded.    "I am retarding us. We have been traveling very fast. One million  years and a few thousand are all which remain before we must stop."    I had noticed once or twice before that Migul had turned to gaze  through the Time-telespectroscope. Now he said:    "We are again followed!"    But he would say no more than that, and he silenced me harshly when I  questioned.    Suddenly, Mary touched me. "That little mirror on the table--look! It  holds an image!"    We saw very briefly on the glowing mirror the image of a Time-cage  like our own, but smaller. It was pursuing us. But why, or who might  be operating it we could not then guess.    *       *       *       *       *    My attention went back to the Time-dials, and then to the window. The  Cosmorama now was proceeding with a slowing sweep of change. It was  less blurred; its melting outlines could more readily be perceived.  The line of seashore swept like a gray gash across the vista. The land  stretched back into the haze of distance.    500,000 B. C. Again my fancy pictured what was transpiring upon this  vast stage. The apes roamed the Earth. There is no one to say what was  here in this grayness of the Western Hemisphere stretching around me,  but in Java there was a man-like ape. And then it was an ape-like man!  Mankind, here at last! Man, the Killer! Of all the beasts, this new  thing called man, most relentless of killers, had come here now to  struggle upward and dominate his world! This man-like ape in a quarter  of a million years became an ape-like man.    250,000 B. C. and the Heidelberg man, a little less ape-like, wandered  
floor and terminated in a small metal cylinder in the room corner.    "Turn front," he ordered vehemently. "One more backward look  and--Careful! Here he comes!"    *       *       *       *       *    Strange tableau in this burned forest! We were on the space of New  York City in 762 A. D. There was no life in the scene. Birds, animals  and insects shunned this fire-denuded area. And the humans of the  forest--were there none of them here?    Abruptly I saw a group of men at the edge of the glade. They had come  silently creeping forward, hiding behind the blackened tree-trunks.  They were all behind Migul. I saw them like dark shadows darting from  the shelter of one tree-trunk to the next, a group of perhaps twenty  savages.    Migul did not see them, nor, in the heavy silence, did he seem to hear  them. They came, gazing at our shining cage like animals fascinated,  wondering what manner of thing it was.    They were the ancestors of our American Indians. One fellow stopped in  a patch of sunlight and I saw him clearly. His half-naked body had an  animal skin draped over it, and, incongruously, around his forehead  was a band of cloth holding a feather. He carried a stone ax. I saw  his face; the flat, heavy features showed his Asiatic origin.    Someone behind this leader impulsively shot an arrow across the glade.  It went over Migul's head and fell short of our cage. Migul turned,  and a rain of arrows thudded harmlessly against its metal body. I  heard the Robot's contemptuous laugh. It made no answering attack, but  stood motionless. And suddenly, thinking it a god whom now they must  placate, the savages fell prostrate before him.    Strange tableau! I saw a ball of white mist across the glade near  Migul. Something was materializing; an imponderable ghost of something  was taking form. In an instant it was the wraith of a cage; then,  where nothing had been, stood a cage. It was solid and substantial--a 
captives in the Earth-camp of the invaders themselves. You probably  saw the display of lights that marks their camp down in the valley a  mile beyond my place. We have learned since that the space ship of the  invaders dropped silently down into the valley the night before the  moon turned green and established the camp as a sort of outpost and  observatory. They left two of their number there as pioneers, then the  rest of them departed in the space ship for their present post up near  the moon.    "Ruth and I were revived only that the two invaders in the camp might  question us regarding life on this planet. They have a science that is  based upon principles as utterly strange and incomprehensible to us as  ours probably is to them. They probed my brain with a thought machine.  It was an apparatus that worked both ways. What knowledge they got  from me I do not know, but I do know that they unwittingly told me  much in the bizarre and incredible mental pictures that the machine  carried from their brains to mine.    *       *       *       *       *    "They are refugees. Bruce, from a planet that circled about the star  that we know as Alpha Centauri, a star that is the nearest of all our  stellar neighbors, being only four and a third light years distant.  Their home planet was disrupted by a colossal engineering experiment  of the Centaurians themselves, the only survivors being a group of  fifty who escaped in a space ship just before the catastrophe.    "There were no other habitable planets in their own system, so in  desperation these refugees sped out across the void to our solar  system in the hope of finding a new home here. They reconnoitered our  Earth secretly and found it ideal. But first they believed that they  must conquer the life that already held this Earth. To do this, they  struck with the Green Sickness.    "The rays that are turning the moon green emanate from the space ship 
crippled body over to the instrument enclosure. Dixon staggered toward  it as fast as his half-paralyzed muscles would permit.    He was just too late. The Centaurian jerked a lever home a fraction of  a second before Dixon's smashing ax forever ended his activities. The  lever's action upon the pen of inert hybrids was immediate.    The sweeping lances of light vanished in a brief sheet of vivid flame  which kindled the dark globes on the hybrids' gruesome heads to steady  opalescence--and the dread horde came to life! Sprawling from the pen,  they came scuttling toward Dixon in a surging flood--a scene out of a  nightmare.    Dixon faced the oncoming horde in numb despair, knowing that his  nearly-paralyzed body had no chance in flight. Then, just as the  hybrids were nearly upon him, he heard Ruth's encouraging voice again.    "There's still one chance left, Bruce," she cried, "and I'll take it!"    Dixon turned. Ruth had in her hand the tiny contact grenade he had  given her for a last emergency. She snapped the safety catch on the  little bomb, then hurled it squarely at the giant opalescent globe  looming close beside her.    There was a terrific explosion and the great globe shattered to atoms.  Apparently stunned by the concussion but otherwise unhurt, Ruth was  flung clear of the wreckage.    With the shattering of the central globe the strange life force of the  hybrid horde vanished instantly and completely. Midway in their rush  they sprawled inert and dead, with their outstretched legs so close to  Dixon that he had to step over one or two to get clear.    *       *       *       *       *    Dixon's brain reeled in the reaction of relief from the horde's  hideous menace. Then he grimly fought to clear his fast-numbing senses  long enough for the one final task that he knew must still be done.    The projectile, cushioned as it was, had escaped detonation in the  blast. He had only to stagger across the twenty yards separating him 
at a desk near the elevator. As I spied him a green light glowed in  front of him twice.    "They've got him, sir, bringing him in."    A low-toned order. The soldiers sprang to their post. A whirring  signal. At the other end of the room the steel wall began to move  upward, and water rushed in. A tremendous vibration shook the chamber:  a ponderous thudding. The water rose to the level of the balcony and  stopped. I looked at Bradley.    "We're beneath the surface, aren't we?" I asked. "How is it that the  water doesn't fill the room?"    "Pumps," he replied. "Tremendous pumps that draw the water out just as  fast as it comes in, and shoot it out again into the sea. We can  maintain any desired level in here."    Then I noticed that the black flood was rushing by beneath me at a  terrific rate.    Something bulked in the opening. Two tiny subs drew in, a black and a  green. The steel wall rushed down again, and the vibration ceased.  From the green craft heavy grapples extended, clutching the black,  enemy scout. I saw a gaping hole in the black boat's nose, where its  eye had been smashed.    Men were clambering over both vessels' hulls, tugging at the hatchway  fastenings. The black one flew open. I leaped to the deck. Bradley  after me, and jumped down into the hold.    In the little cubby-hole that was all the machinery left space for, a  pale-faced form in green-gray crouched against the wall. His eyes  stared in fear. A Russian, praise be. And not far from my size and  build.    "Off with his clothes, quick!" I yelled, stripping mine as I spoke.  Bradley looked at me queerly, and shrugged his shoulders. "Quick, man!  Everything depends on speed!"    He shook his head, as one who listens to the vaporings of an imbecile,  but turned to obey. I was standing there--naked, studying the  Easterner's face, his body. No scars. Good.    *       *       *       *       * 
wolves would belch forth--from the very earth.    And the Americans would follow Europe into hell!    *       *       *       *       *    Five minutes passed. I looked again at the face of the tunnel, drawn  by an irresistible fascination. It had advanced a full quarter of a  mile. Like fog before a cloud-piercing searchlight, the age-old rock  was dissolving before the ray. At this rate America's doom would be  sealed in a week. And I, alone among these thousands, was helpless to  avert the climaxing menace.    A howl of rage came from the sergeant. I turned. A diminutive German,  his face pale green with fatigue, had stumbled and fallen under the  weight of a heavy timber.    The swarthy non-com was kicking him with a cruel boot. "Get up, you;  get up before I brain you!"    The sprawling man looked up, fear staring from his deep-sunk eyes.  "_Aber, ich bin krank._"--"I am sick; I can't stand the work; it is  too _schwer_, too heavy," he faltered.    "Sick?" the Russian roared. "Sick? I'll sick you! You're lazy, too  damned lazy to do a little work. I'm tired of this gold-bricking  around here. I'm going to make an example of you that the rest of you  dogs won't forget in a hurry." His face was purple with rage. He bent,  seized the fallen man and dragged him out from under the crushing  bulk. Then, raising the struggling wretch over his head as lightly as  though he were an infant, he ran forward, toward the ray projectors.    Shriek after shriek pierced the hot air, such howls of utter fear and  agony, as I hope never to hear again. The little figure, held high in  the huge paws, writhed and tossed, to no avail.    The sergeant reached the nearest tripod. His brawny arms flexed;  straightened. The German swept up and over the head of the operator,  and dropped in front of the machine. Then--he vanished. Nothing,  absolutely nothing, was there between projector and rapidly retreating 
consumed much more rapidly than if they merely struck thin  air.    That, however, is a minor point and I wouldn't even mind  conceding it to Mr. Meek. The point I now wish to make is  much more important and in my mind establishes the falsity  of Mr. Meek's premises. In the July issue of Astounding  Stories, page seven, paragraph four, sentences fourteen and  fifteen, he states that the Heaviside Layer is composed of a  liquid of high viscosity. By definition a liquid is more  dense than a gas. Therefore the Heaviside Layer, according  to Mr. Meek, is denser than the atmosphere of the earth  since the former is a liquid and the latter is a gas. The  increased refraction of light as it entered our atmosphere  would then be noticeable. Astronomers can even now detect  refraction due to the air. The sun remains visible for some  time after it has actually descended below the horizon, due  to refraction. If there was a denser substance than air  surrounding the earth the refraction would be much greater.  Finally, how could the atmosphere support a denser substance  like the Heaviside Layer? I'd sure make for cover if I  really believed that such a menace existed right over my  head.    Sorry to take up your space so much by an argument, but your  comments on my letter really called for a defense. Hope you  can find room for this.--Philip Waite, 3400 Wayne Ave, New  Your, N. Y. 
Your artists are great, but you could still improve by  having them make a full page illustration at the start and  one more exciting one as the story progresses.    Well, I think I've said enough good things about you and  enough suggestions, so until January 1932, adios, au revoir,  etc.--Henry Benner, Cowithe, Wash.      _Ouch!_    Dear Editor:    Personally I would rather read a good short story than the  ten pages of instructions by Readers published in the March  issue. Two pages are plenty, especially when half the  criticisms concern paper, size, edges of paper, etc. A. S.  is O. K!    How about that other short?--Don Ward, 6 Ketchel St.,  Auburn, N. Y.      _Likes Action_    Dear Editor:    I have just finished the February issue of Astounding  Stories. All of the stories were so good I couldn't tell you  which one is the best. "The Phalanxes of Atlans" and "The  Tentacles from Below" were very good. I liked "The Black  Lamp," too. It is up to the standard of the rest of the Dr.  Bird stories. "The Pirate Planet" ended very beautifully.  However, I did not like that about Sykes getting killed.  "Werewolves of War" was good. It ended differently from most  of the other stories. Most of them end with the hero  escaping, but in this the hero was killed. It had a very  good plot. 
