another drink, listening as the mine owner's big voice went on:    "But what began it? When did the asterites first start realizing they  weren't pseudopods of a dozen Terrestrial nations, but a single nation  in their own right? There's the root of the revolution. And it can be  pinned down, too."    "'Ware metaphor!" cried someone at my elbow. I turned and saw Missy  Blades. She'd come quietly into the lounge and started mixing a gin  and bitters.    The view window framed her white head in Orion as she moved toward the  little cluster of seated men. She took a fat cigar from her pocket,  struck it on her shoe sole, and added her special contribution to the  blue cloud in the room after she sat down.    "Excuse me," she said. "I couldn't help that. Please go on." Which I  hope relieves you of any fear that she's an Unforgettable Character.  Oh, yes, she's old as Satan now; her toil and guts and conniving make  up half the biography of the Sword; she manned a gun turret at Ceres,  and was mate of the _Tyrfing_ on some of the earliest Saturn runs when  men took their lives between their teeth because they needed both  hands free; her sons and grandsons fill the Belt with their brawling  ventures; she can drink any ordinary man to the deck; she's one of the  three women ever admitted to the Club. But she's also one of the few  genuine ladies I've known in my life.    "Uh, well," Lindgren grinned at her. "I was saying, Missy, the germ of  the revolution was when the Stations armed themselves. You see, that  meant more than police powers. It implied a degree of sovereignty.  Over the years, the implication grew."    "Correct." Orloff nodded his bald head. "I remember how the Governing  Commission squalled when the Station managers first demanded the  right. They foresaw trouble. But if the Stations belonging to one  country put in space weapons, what else could the others do?"    "They should have stuck together and all been firm about refusing to  allow it," Amspaugh said. "From the standpoint of their own best 
   "Courtesy visit from the NASS _Altair_. You've lost track of time, my  boy."    "What the ... the jumping blue blazes are you talking about? We've had  our courtesy visit. Jimmy and I both went over to pay our respects,  and we had Rear Admiral Hulse here to dinner. What more do they  expect, for Harry's sake?"    "Don't you remember? Since there wasn't room to entertain his  officers, you promised to take them on a personal guided tour later. I  made the appointment the very next watch. Now's the hour."    "Oh, yes, it comes back to me. Yeah. Hulse brought a magnum of  champagne with him, and after so long a time drinking recycled water,  my capacity was shot to pieces. I got a warm glow of good fellowship  on, and offered--Let Jimmy handle it, I'm busy."    "The party's too large, he says. You'll have to take half of them.  Their gig will dock in thirty minutes."    "Well, depute somebody else."    "That'd be rude, Mike. Have you forgotten how sensitive they are about  rank at home?" Avis hesitated. "If what I believe about the mood back  there is true, we can use the good will of high-level Navy personnel.  And any other influential people in sight."    Blades drew a deep breath. "You're too blinking sensible. Remind me to  fire you after I've made my first ten million bucks."    "What'll you do for your next ten million, then?" snipped his  secretary-file clerk-confidante-adviser-et cetera.    "Nothing. I'll just squander the first."    "Goody! Can I help?"    "Uh ... I'll be right along." Blades switched off. His ears felt hot,  as often of late when he tangled with Avis, and he unlimbered only a  few choice oaths.    "Troubles?" asked Carlos Odonaju.    Blades stood a moment, looking around, before he answered. He was on  the wide end of the Sword, which was shaped roughly like a truncated  pyramid. Beyond him and his half dozen men stretched a vista of pitted  rock, jutting crags, gulf-black shadows, under the glare of  floodlamps. A few kilometers away, the farthest horizon ended, chopped 
up, the waste heat of man and his industry kept it that way. The dark,  chipped-out tunnels throbbed with machine noises. Here and there a  girlie picture or a sentimental landscape from Earth was posted. Men  moved busily along them, bearing tools, instruments, supplies. They  were from numerous countries, those men, though mostly North  Americans, but they had acquired a likeness, a rangy leathery look and  a free-swinging stride, that went beyond their colorful coveralls.    "Hi, Mike.... How's she spinning?... Hey, Mike, you heard the latest  story about the Martian and the bishop?... Can you spare me a minute?  We got troubles in the separator manifolds.... What's the hurry, Mike,  your batteries overcharged?" Blades waved the hails aside. There was  need for haste. You could move fast indoors, under the low weight  which became lower as you approached the axis of rotation, with no  fear of tumbling off. But it was several kilometers from the gas  receptor end to the people end of the asteroid.    He rattled down a ladder and entered his cramped office out of breath.  Avis Page looked up from her desk and wrinkled her freckled snub nose  at him. "You ought to take a shower, but there isn't time," she said.  "Here, use my antistinker." She threw him a spray cartridge with a  deft motion. "I got your suit and beardex out of your cabin."    "Have I no privacy?" he grumbled, but grinned in her direction. She  wasn't much to look at--not ugly, just small, brunette, and  unspectacular--but she was a supernova of an assistant. Make somebody  a good wife some day. He wondered why she hadn't taken advantage of  the situation here to snaffle a husband. A dozen women, all but two of  them married, and a hundred men, was a ratio even more lopsided than  the norm in the Belt. Of course with so much work to do, and with  everybody conscious of the need to maintain cordial relations, sex  didn't get much chance to rear its lovely head. Still--    She smiled back with the gentleness that he found disturbing when he  noticed it. "Shoo," she said. "Your guests will be here any minute.  You're to meet them in Jimmy's office." 
   Chung's glance became downright murderous. "I thought--" he began.    "Sure." Blades nodded vigorously. "You being the senior partner,  you'll take the highest ranking of these gentlemen, and I'll be in  Scotland before you. C'mon, let's get started. May I?" He offered the  quartermistress his arm. She smiled and took it. He supposed that  eight or ten of her fellows trailed them.    *       *       *       *       *    The first disturbing note was sounded on the verandah.    [Illustration]    They had glanced at the cavelike dormitories where most of the  personnel lived; at the recreation dome topside which made the life  tolerable; at kitchen, sick bay, and the other service facilities; at  the hydroponic tanks and yeast vats which supplied much of the  Station's food; at the tiny cabins scooped out for the top engineers  and the married couples. Before leaving this end of the asteroid,  Blades took his group to the verandah. It was a clear dome jutting  from the surface, softly lighted, furnished as a primitive officers'  lounge, open to a view of half the sky.    "Oh-h," murmured Ellen Ziska. Unconsciously she moved closer to  Blades.    Young Lieutenant Commander Gilbertson gave her a somewhat jaundiced  look. "You've seen deep space often enough before," he said.    "Through a port or a helmet." Her eyes glimmered enormous in the dusk.  "Never like this."    The stars crowded close in their wintry myriads. The galactic belt  glistened, diamond against infinite darkness. Vision toppled endlessly  outward, toward the far mysterious shimmer of the Andromeda Nebula;  silence was not a mere absence of noise, but a majestic presence, the  seething of suns.    "What about the observation terrace at Leyburg?" Gilbertson  challenged.    "That was different," Ellen Ziska said. "Everything was safe and  civilized. This is like being on the edge of creation."    Blades could see why Goddard House had so long resisted the inclusion of  female officers on ships of the line, despite political pressure at home 
thin metallic coat on a plastic backing. They're in orbit around us,  each with a small geegee unit to control drift and keep it aimed  directly at the sun. The focused radiation charges heavy-duty  accumulators, which we then collect and use for our power source in  all our mobile work."    "Do you mean you haven't any nuclear generator?" asked Warburton.    He seemed curiously intent about it. Blades wondered why, but nodded.  "That's correct. We don't want one. Too dangerous for us. Nor is it  necessary. Even at this distance from the sun, and allowing for  assorted inefficiencies, a mirror supplies better than five hundred  kilowatts, twenty-four hours a day, year after year, absolutely free."    "Hm-m-m. Yes." Warburton's lean head turned slowly about, to rake  Blades with a look of calculation. "I understand that's the normal  power system in Stations of this type. But we didn't know if it was  used in your case, too."    _Why should you care?_ Blades thought.    He shoved aside his faint unease and urged Ellen toward the dome  railing. "Maybe we can spot your ship, Lieutenant, uh, Miss Ziska.  Here's a telescope. Let me see, her orbit ought to run about so...."    *       *       *       *       *    He hunted until the _Altair_ swam into the viewfield. At this distance  the spheroid looked like a tiny crescent moon, dully painted; but he  could make out the sinister shapes of a rifle turret and a couple of  missile launchers. "Have a look," he invited. Her hair tickled his  nose, brushing past him. It had a delightful sunny odor.    "How small she seems," the girl said, with the same note of wonder as  before. "And how huge when you're aboard."    Big, all right, Blades knew, and loaded to the hatches with nuclear  hellfire. But not massive. A civilian spaceship carried meteor  plating, but since that was about as useful as wet cardboard against  modern weapons, warcraft sacrificed it for the sake of mobility. The 
   "How'd you happen to join the Navy, if I may make so bold?"    "Gosh, that's hard to say. But I guess mostly I felt so crowded at  home. So, pigeonholed. The world seemed to be nothing but neat little  pigeonholes."    "Uh-huh. Same here. I was also a square pigeon in a round hole." She  laughed. "Luckily," he added, "Space is too big for compartments."    Her agreement lacked vigor. The Navy must have been a disappointment  to her. But she couldn't very well say so in front of her shipmates.    Hm-m-m ... if she could be gotten away from them--"How long will you  be here?" he inquired. His pulse thuttered.    "We haven't been told," she said.    "Some work must be done on the missile launchers," Warburton said.  "That's best carried out here, where extra facilities are available if  we need them. Not that I expect we will." He paused. "I hope we won't  interfere with your own operations."    "Far from it." Blades beamed at Ellen. "Or, more accurately, this kind  of interference I don't mind in the least."    She blushed and her eyelids fluttered. Not that she was a fluffhead,  he realized. But to avoid incidents, Navy regulations enforced an  inhuman correctness between personnel of opposite sexes. After weeks  in the black, meeting a man who could pay a compliment without risking  court-martial must be like a shot of adrenalin. Better and better!    "Are you sure?" Warburton persisted. "For instance, won't we be in the  way when the next ship comes from Jupiter?"    "She'll approach the opposite end of the asteroid," Blades said.  "Won't stay long, either."    "How long?"    "One watch, so the crew can relax a bit among those of us who're off  duty. It'd be a trifle longer if we didn't happen to have an empty bag  at the moment. But never very long. Even running under thrust the  whole distance, Jupe's a good ways off. They've no time to waste."    "When is the next ship due?"    "The _Pallas Castle_ is expected in the second watch from now." 
failure in the thermodynamic balance, a miscalculation in supply  inventory, a few mirrors perturbed out of proper orbit, might spell  Ragnarok. The chemical plant's purifications and syntheses were  already a network too large for the human mind to grasp as a whole,  and it was still growing. Even where men could have taken charge,  automation was cheaper, more reliable, less risky of lives. The  computer system housed in Central Control was not only the brain, but  the nerves and heart of the Sword.    "Entirely cryotronic, eh?" Warburton commented. "That seems to be the  usual practice at the Stations. Why?"    "The least expensive type for us," Blades answered. "There's no  problem in maintaining liquid helium here."    Warburton's gaze was peculiarly intense. "Cryotronic systems are  vulnerable to magnetic and radiation disturbances."    "Uh-huh. That's one reason we don't have a nuclear power plant. This  far from the sun, we don't get enough emission to worry about. The  asteroid's mass screens out what little may arrive. I know the TIMM  system is used on ships; but if nothing else, the initial cost is more  than we want to pay."    "What's TIMM?" inquired the _Altair's_ chaplain.    "Thermally Integrated Micro-Miniaturized," Ellen said crisply.  "Essentially, ultraminiaturized ceramic-to-metal-seal vacuum tubes  running off thermionic generators. They're immune to gamma ray and  magnetic pulses, easily shielded against particule radiation, and  economical of power." She grinned. "Don't tell me there's nothing  about them in Leviticus, Padre!"    "Very fine for a ship's autopilot," Blades agreed. "But as I said, we  needn't worry about rad or mag units here, we don't mind sprawling a  bit, and as for thermal efficiency, we want to waste some heat. It  goes to maintain internal temperature."    "In other words, efficiency depends on what you need to effish," Ellen  bantered. She grew grave once more and studied him for a while before  she mused, "The same person who swung a pick, a couple of years ago,  now deals with something as marvelous as this...." He forgot about  worrying.    *       *       *       *       * 
 Chung shook his head. "It wasn't a normal standoffishness. You've  heard me reminisce about the time I was on Vesta with the North  American technical representative, when the Convention was  negotiated."    "Yes, I've heard that story a few times," said Avis dryly.    "Remember, that was right after the Europa Incident. We'd come close  to a space war--undeclared, but it would have been nasty. We were  still close. Every delegate went to that conference cocked and primed.    "Hulse had the same manner."    *       *       *       *       *    A silence fell. Blades said at length, "Well, come to think of it, he  did ask some rather odd questions. He seemed to twist the conversation  now and then, so he could find things out like our exact layout,  emergency doctrine, and so forth. It didn't strike me as significant,  though."    "Nor me," Chung admitted. "Taken in isolation, it meant nothing. But  these visitors today--Sure, most of them obviously didn't suspect  anything untoward. But that Liebknecht, now. Why was he so interested  in Central Control? Nothing new or secret there. Yet he kept asking  for details like the shielding factor of the walls."    "So did Commander Warburton," Blades remembered. "Also, he wanted to  know exactly when the _Pallas_ is due, how long she'll stay ...  hm-m-m, yes, whether we have any radio linkage with the outside, like  to Ceres or even the nearest Commission base--"    "Did you tell him that we don't?" Avis asked sharply.    "Yes. Shouldn't I have?"    "It scarcely makes any difference," Chung said in a resigned voice.  "As thoroughly as they went over the ground, they'd have seen what we  do and do not have installed so far."    He leaned forward. "Why are they hanging around?" he asked. "I was  handed some story about overhauling the missile system."    "Me, too," Blades said.    "But you don't consider a job complete till it's been tested. And you 
  "I ... I suppose so. Everything was so vague. No dramatic events. More  of an atmosphere than a concrete thing."    *       *       *       *       *    "Still, you confirm my own impression," Chung said. Blades jerked his  undisciplined imagination back from the idea of a Thing, with bug eyes  and tentacles, cast in reinforced concrete, and listened as his  partner summed up:    "The popular feeling at home has turned against private enterprise.  You can hardly call a corporate monster like Systemic Developments a  private enterprise! The new President and Congress share that mood. We  can expect to see it manifested in changed laws and regulations. But  what has this got to do with a battleship parked a couple of hundred  kilometers from us?"    "If the government doesn't want the asterites to develop much  further--" Blades bit hard on his pipestem. "They must know we have a  caviar mine here. We'll be the only city in this entire sector."    "But we're still a baby," Avis said. "We won't be important for years  to come. Who'd have it in for a baby?"    "Besides, we're Americans, too," Chung said. "If that were a foreign  ship, the story might be different--Wait a minute! Could they be  thinking of establishing a new base here?"    "The Convention wouldn't allow," said Blades.    "Treaties can always be renegotiated, or even denounced. But first you  have to investigate quietly, find out if it's worth your while."    "Hoo hah, what lovely money that'd mean!"    "And lovely bureaucrats crawling out of every file cabinet," Chung  said grimly. "No, thank you. We'll fight any such attempt to the last  lawyer. We've got a good basis, too, in our charter. If the suit is  tried on Ceres, as I believe it has to be, we'll get a sympathetic  court as well."    "Unless they ring in an Earthside judge," Avis warned.    "Yeah, that's possible. Also, they could spring proceedings on us 
 kind of work." Blades would frankly rather have had her behind him on  a motorskimmer, hanging on as they careened through a springtime  countryside. He was glad when they reached the main forward air lock  and debarked.    He was still gladder when the suits were off. Lieutenant Ziska in  dress uniform was stunning, but Ellen in civvies, a fluffy low-cut  blouse and close-fitting slacks, was a hydrogen blast. He wanted to  roll over and pant, but settled for saying, "Welcome back" and holding  her hand rather longer than necessary.    With a shy smile, she gave him a package. "I drew this before  leaving," she said. "I thought, well, your life is so austere--"    "A demi of Sandeman," he said reverently. "I won't tell you you  shouldn't have, but I will tell you you're a sweet girl."    "No, really." She flushed. "After we've put you to so much trouble."    "Let's go crack this," he said. "The _Pallas_ has called in, but she  won't be visible for a while yet."    *       *       *       *       *    They made their way to the verandah, picking up a couple of glasses  enroute. Bless his envious heart, Jimmy had warned the other boys off  as requested. _I hope Avis cooks him a Cordon Bleu dinner_, Blades  thought. _Nice kid, Avis, if she'd quit trying to ... what? ... mother  me?_ He forgot about her, with Ellen to seat by the rail.    The Milky Way turned her hair frosty and glowed in her eyes. Blades  poured the port with much ceremony and raised his glass. "Here's to  your frequent return," he said.    Her pleasure dwindled a bit. "I don't know if I should drink to that.  We aren't likely to be back, ever."    "Drink anyway. Gling, glang, gloria!" The rims tinkled together.  "After all," said Blades, "this isn't the whole universe. We'll both  be getting around. See you on Luna?"    "Maybe."   
partnership. The first such charter in the Belt, as far as I know,  though there'll be more in the future. The Bank of Ceres financed us.  We haven't taken a nickel of federal money."    "Is that possible?"    "Just barely. I'm no economist, but I can see how it works. Money  represents goods and labor. Hitherto those have been in mighty short  supply out here. Government subsidies made up the difference, enabling  us to buy from Earth. But now the asterites have built up enough  population and industry that they have some capital surplus of their  own, to invest in projects like this."    "Even so, frankly, I'm surprised that two men by themselves could get  such a loan. It must be huge. Wouldn't the bank rather have lent the  money to some corporation?"    "To tell the truth, we have friends who pulled wires for us. Also, it  was done partly on ideological grounds. A lot of asterites would like  to see more strictly home-grown enterprises, not committed to anyone  on Earth. That's the only way we can grow. Otherwise our profits--our  net production, that is--will continue to be siphoned off for the  mother country's benefit."    "Well," Ellen said with some indignation, "that was the whole reason  for planting asteroid colonies. You can't expect us to set you up in  business, at enormous cost to ourselves--things we might have done at  home--and get nothing but 'Ta' in return."    "Never fear, we'll repay you with interest," Blades said. "But  whatever we make from our own work, over and above that, ought to stay  here with us."    She grew angrier. "Your kind of attitude is what provoked the voters  to elect Social Justice candidates."    "Nice name, that," mused Blades. "Who can be against social justice?  But you know, I think I'll go into politics myself. I'll organize the  North American Motherhood Party."    "You wouldn't be so flippant if you'd go see how people have to live  back there."    "As bad as here? _Whew!_"    "Nonsense. You know that isn't true. But bad enough. And you aren't  going to stick in these conditions. Only a few hours ago, you were 
 "Scoopships," Blades told her. "They haul the cargo in, being so much  more maneuverable. Actually, though, the mother vessel is going to  park her load in orbit, while those boys bring in another one ... see,  there it comes into sight. We still haven't got the capacity to keep  up with our deliveries."    "How many are there? Scoopships, that is."    "Twenty, but you don't need more than four for this job. They've got  terrific power. Have to, if they're to dive from orbit down into the  Jovian atmosphere, ram themselves full of gas, and come back. There  they go."    The _Pallas Castle_ was wrestling the great sphere she had hauled from  Jupiter into a stable path computed by Central Control. Meanwhile the  scoopships, small only by comparison with her, locked onto the other  balloon as it drifted close. Energy poured into their drive fields.  Spiraling downward, transparent globe and four laboring spacecraft  vanished behind the horizon. The _Pallas_ completed her own task,  disengaged her towbars, and dropped from view, headed for the dock.    The second balloon rose again, like a huge glass moon on the opposite  side of the Sword. Still it grew in Ellen's eyes, kilometer by  kilometer of approach. So much mass wasn't easily handled, but the  braking curve looked disdainfully smooth. Presently she could make out  the scoopships in detail, elongated teardrops with the intake gates  yawning in the blunt forward end, cockpit canopies raised very  slightly above.    Instructions rattled from the men in the dome. The balloon veered  clumsily toward the one free receptor. A derricklike structure  released one end of a cable, which streamed skyward. Things that Ellen  couldn't quite follow in this tricky light were done by the four tugs,  mechanisms of their own extended to make their tow fast to the cable.    They did not cast loose at once, but continued to drag a little,  easing the impact of centrifugal force. Nonetheless a slight shudder  went through the dome as slack was taken up. Then the job was over.  The scoopships let go and flitted off to join their mother vessel. The  balloon was winched inward. Spacesuited men moved close, preparing to 
was soon too far away for gyrogravitic pulse detection. The thrust  vector is unknown. It could be almost anywhere now.    "Well, naval missiles are programmed to reverse acceleration if they  haven't made a target within a given time. This one should be back in  less than six hours. If it first detects our ship, everything is all  right. It has optical recognition circuits that identify any North  American warcraft by type, disarm the war head, and steer it home.  But, if it first comes within fifty kilometers of some other  mass--like this asteroid or one of the companion rocks--it will  detonate. We'll make every effort to intercept, but space is big.  You'll have to take your people to a safe distance. They can come back  even after a blast, of course. There's no concussion in vacuum, and  the fireball won't reach here. It's principally an anti-personnel  weapon. But you must not be within the lethal radius of radiation."    "The hell we can come back!" Avis cried.    [Illustration]    "I beg your pardon?" Hulse said.    "You imbecile! Don't you know Central Control here is cryotronic?"    Hulse did not flicker an eyelid. "So it is," he said expressionlessly.  "I had forgotten."    *       *       *       *       *    Blades mastered his own shock enough to grate: "Well, we sure haven't.  If that thing goes off, the gamma burst will kick up so many minority  carriers in the transistors that the _p_-type crystals will act  _n_-type, and the _n_-type act _p_-type, for a whole couple of  microseconds. Every one of 'em will flip simultaneously! The  computers' memory and program data systems will be scrambled beyond  hope of reorganization."    "Magnetic pulse, too," Chung said. "The fireball plasma will be full  of inhomogeneities moving at several per cent of light speed. Their  electromagnetic output, hitting our magnetic core units, will turn  them from super to ordinary conduction. Same effect, total computer  amnesia. We haven't got enough shielding against it. Your TIMM systems 
 "Her?" Avis wailed, and fled.    Chung sat down and flipped his intercom to Phone Central. "Get me  Captain Janichevski aboard the _Pallas_," he ordered. "Hello, Adam?  About that general alarm--"    Blades raised a haggard countenance toward Ellen's. "You better clear  out, along with the women and any men who don't want to stay," he  said. "But I think most of them will take the chance. They're on a  profit-sharing scheme, they stand to lose too much if the place is  ruined."    "What do you mean?"    "It's a gamble, but I don't believe Hulse's sealed orders extend to  murder. If enough of us stay put, he'll have to catch that thing. He  jolly well knows its exact trajectory."    "You forget we're under martial law," Chung said, aside to him. "If we  don't go freely, he'll land some PP's and march us off at gunpoint.  There isn't any choice. We've had the course."    "I don't understand," Ellen said shakily.    Chung went back to his intercom. Blades fumbled out his pipe and  rolled it empty between his hands. "That missile was shot off on  purpose," he said.    "What? No, you must be sick, that's impossible!"    "I realize you didn't know about it. Only three or four officers have  been told. The job had to be done very, very secretly, or there'd be a  scandal, maybe an impeachment. But it's still sabotage."    She shrank from him. "You're not making sense."    "Their own story doesn't make sense. It's ridiculous. A new missile  system wouldn't be sent on a field trial clear to the Belt before it'd  had enough tests closer to home to get the worst bugs out. A war-head  missile wouldn't be stashed anywhere near something so unreliable, let  alone be put under its control. The testing ship wouldn't hang around  a civilian Station while her gunnery chief tinkered. And Hulse,  Warburton, Liebknecht, they were asking in _such_ detail about how  radiation-proof we are."    "I can't believe it. Nobody will."    "Not back home. Communication with Earth is so sparse and garbled. The  
develop naturally.    "Only ... here the Sword is, obviously bound to grow rich and expand  in every direction. If we're allowed to develop, to reinvest our  profits, we'll become the nucleus of independent asterite enterprise.  If, on the other hand, we're wiped out by an unfortunate accident,  there's no nucleus; and a small change in the banking laws is all  that's needed to prevent others from getting started. Q.E.D."    "I daresay Hulse does think he's doing his patriotic duty," said  Blades. "He wants to guarantee North America our natural resources--in  the long run, maybe, our allegiance. If he has to commit sabotage, too  bad, but it won't cost him any sleep."    "No!" Ellen almost screamed.    Chung sagged in his chair. "We're very neatly trapped," he said like  an old man. "I don't see any way out. Think you can get to work now,  Mike? You can assign group leaders for the evacuation--"    Blades jumped erect. "I can fight!" he growled.    "With what? Can openers?"    "You mean you're going to lie down and let them break us?"    Avis came back. She thrust the bottle into Blades' hands as he paced  the room. "Here you are," she said in a distant voice.    He held it out toward Ellen. "Have some," he invited.    "Not with you ... you subversive!"    Avis brightened noticeably, took the bottle and raised it. "Then  here's to victory," she said, drank, and passed it to Blades.    He started to gulp; but the wine was too noble, and he found himself  savoring its course down his throat. _Why,_ he thought vaguely, _do  people always speak with scorn about Dutch courage? The Dutch have  real guts. They fought themselves free of Spain and free of the ocean  itself; when the French or Germans came, they made the enemy sea their  ally_--    The bottle fell from his grasp. In the weak acceleration, it hadn't  hit the floor when Avis rescued it. "Gimme that, you big  butterfingers," she exclaimed. Her free hand clasped his arm.  "Whatever happens, Mike," she said to him, "we're not quitting." 
   "I can't make policy."    "In other words, mama knows best. Believe, obey, anything put out by  some bureaucrat who never set foot beyond Luna. Is that your idea of  citizenship?"    "You're putting a mighty fine gloss on bailing yourself out!"  Janichevski flared.    "Sure, I'm no idealist. But neither am I a slave," Blades hesitated.  "We've been friends too long, Adam, for me to try bribing you. But if  worst comes to worst, we'll cover for you ... somehow ... and if  contrariwise we win, then we'll soon be hiring captains for our own  ships and you'll get the best offer any spaceman ever got."    "No. Scram. I've work to do."    Blades braced himself. "I didn't want to say this. But I've already  informed a number of my men. They're as mad as I am. They're waiting  in the terminal. A monkey wrench or a laser torch makes a pretty fair  weapon. We can take over by force. That'll leave you legally in the  clear. But with so many witnesses around, you'll have to prefer  charges against us later on."    Janichevski began to sweat.    "We'll be sent up," said Blades. "But it will still have been worth  it."    "Is it really that important to you?"    "Yes. I admit I'm no crusader. But this is a matter of principle."    Janichevski stared at the big red-haired man for a long while.  Suddenly he stiffened. "O.K. On that account, and no other, I'll go  along with you."    Blades wobbled on his feet, near collapse with relief. "Good man!" he  croaked.    "But I will not have any of my officers or crew involved."    Blades rallied and answered briskly, "You needn't. Just issue orders  that my boys are to have access to the scoopships. They can install  the equipment, jockey the boats over to the full balloons, and even  couple them on."    Janichevski's fears had vanished once he made his decision, but now a  certain doubt registered. "That's a pretty skilled job."    "These are pretty skilled men. It isn't much of a maneuver, not like 
  "All right," said Avis sweetly. "Far be it from me to prevent her  fulfilling her obligations. Afterward she may even write you an  occasional letter. I'm sure that'll brighten your Rehab cell no end."    "What can she do?" Blades argued, with an uneasy sense of whistling in  the dark. "She can't get off the asteroid without a scooter, and I've  already got Sam's gang working on all the scooters."    "Is there no other possibility? The radio shack?"    "With a man on duty there. That's out." Blades patted the girl's arm.    "O.K., I'll get back to work. But ... I'll be so glad when this is  over, Mike!"    Looking into the desperate brown eyes, Blades felt a sudden impulse to  kiss their owner. But no, there was too much else to do. Later,  perhaps. He cocked a thumb upward. "Carry on."    _Too bad about Ellen_, he thought as he continued toward his office.  _What an awful waste, to make a permanent enemy of someone with her  kind of looks. And personality--Come off that stick, you clabberhead!  She's probably the marryin' type anyway._    _In her shoes, though, what would I do? Not much; they'd pinch my  feet. But--damnation, Avis is right. She's not safe to have running  around loose. The radio shack? Sparks is not one of the few who've  been told the whole story and co-opted into the plan. She could_--    Blades cursed, whirled, and ran.    His way was clear. Most of the men were still in their dorms,  preparing to leave. He traveled in huge low-gravity leaps.    The radio shack rose out of the surface near the verandah. Blades  tried the door. It didn't budge. A chill went through him. He backed  across the corridor and charged. The door was only plastiboard--    He hit with a thud and a grunt, and rebounded with a numbed shoulder.  But it looked so easy for the cops on 3V!    No time to figure out the delicate art of forcible entry. He hurled  himself against the panel, again and again, heedless of the pain that  struck in flesh and bone. When the door finally, splinteringly gave 
 fraction of you he leaves unchewed. This is an emergency. I've got to  warn him of an immediate danger only he can deal with."    The other stared, first at Chung's obvious exhaustion, then at the  black eye and assorted bruises, scratches, and bites that adorned  Blades' visage. "I'll put the message through Channel Red at once,  sir." The screen blanked.    "Well, here we go," Chung said. "I wonder how the food in Rehab is  these days."    "Want me to do the talking?" Blades asked. Chung wasn't built for  times as hectic as the last few hours, and was worn to a nubbin. He  himself felt immensely keyed up. He'd always liked a good fight.    "Sure." Chung pulled a crumpled cigarette from his pocket and began to  fill the cabin with smoke. "You have a larger stock of rudeness than  I."    [Illustration]    Presently the screen showed Hulse, rigid at his post on the bridge.  "Good day, gentlemen," he said. "What's the trouble?"    "Plenty," Blades answered. "Clear everybody else out of there; let  your ship orbit free a while. And seal your circuit."    Hulse reddened. "Who do you think you are?"    "Well, my birth certificate says Michael Joseph Blades. I've got some  news for you concerning that top-secret gadget you told us about. You  wouldn't want unauthorized personnel listening in."    Hulse leaned forward till he seemed about to fall through the screen.  "What's this about a hazard?"    "Fact. The _Altair_ is in distinct danger of getting blown to bits."    "Have you gone crazy? Get me the captain of the _Pallas_."    "Very small bits."    Hulse compressed his lips. "All right, I'll listen to you for a short  time. You had better make it worth my while."    He spoke orders. Blades scratched his back while he waited for the  bridge to be emptied and wondered if there was any chance of a hot  shower in the near future.    "Done," said Hulse. "Give me your report."    Blades glanced at the telltale. "You haven't sealed your circuit, 
the 'pilots will be turned on if you try to go beyond range of the  beams now locked onto you. The other unit we've installed in every  boat is an ordinary two-for-a-dollar radiation meter. If a nuclear  weapon goes off, anywhere within a couple of thousand kilometers, the  switches will also close. In either of those cases, the scoopships  will dive on you.    "You might knock out a few with missiles, before they strike.  Undoubtedly you can punch holes in them with laser guns. But that  won't do any good, except when you're lucky enough to hit a vital  part. Nobody's aboard to be killed. Not even much gas will be lost, in  so short a time.    "So to summarize, chum, if that rogue missile explodes, your ship will  be struck by ten to twenty scoopships, each crammed full of  concentrated Jovian air. They'll pierce that thin hull of yours, but  since they're already pumped full beyond the margin of safety, the  impact will split them open and the gas will whoosh out. Do you know  what Jovian air does to substances like magnesium?    "You can probably save your crew, take to the boats and reach a  Commission base. But your nice battleship will be _ganz kaput_. Is  your game worth that candle?"    "You're totally insane! Releasing such a thing--"    "Oh, not permanently. There's one more switch on each boat, connected  to the meteorite evasion unit and controlled by a small battery. When  those batteries run down, in about twenty hours, the 'pilots will be  turned off completely. Then we can spot the scoopships by radar and  pick 'em up. And you'll be free to leave."    "Do you think for one instant that your fantastic claim of acting  legally will stand up in court?"    "No, probably not. But it won't have to. Obviously you can't make  anybody swallow your yarn if a _second_ missile gets loose. And as for  the first one, since it's failed in its purpose, your bosses aren't  going to want the matter publicized. It'd embarrass them to no end,  and serve no purpose except revenge on Jimmy and me--which there's no 
 it'll make our own government handle us more carefully, too."    "Well, you can approach the Commission about it." Blades yawned and  stretched, trying to loosen his muscles. "Better get a lot of other  owners and supervisors to sign your petition, though." The next order  of business came to his mind. He rose. "Why don't you go tell Adam the  good news?"    "Where are you bound?"    "To let Ellen know the fight is over."    "Is it, as far as she's concerned?"    "That's what I'm about to find out. Hope I won't need an armored  escort." Blades went from the cubicle, past the watchful radioman, and  down the deserted passageway beyond.    The cabin given her lay at the end, locked from outside. The key hung  magnetically on the bulkhead. Blades unlocked the door and tapped it  with his knuckles.    "Who's there?" she called.    "Me," he said. "May I come in?"    "If you must," she said freezingly.    He opened the door and stepped through. The overhead light shimmered  off her hair and limned her figure with shadows. His heart bumped.  "You, uh, you can come out now," he faltered. "Everything's O.K."    She said nothing, only regarded him from glacier-blue eyes.    "No harm's been done, except to me and Sparks, and we're not mad," he  groped. "Shall we forget the whole episode?"    "If you wish."    "Ellen," he pleaded, "I had to do what seemed right to me."    "So did I."    He couldn't find any more words.    "I assume that I'll be returned to my own ship," she said. He nodded.  "Then, if you will excuse me, I had best make myself as presentable as  I can. Good day, Mr. Blades."    "What's good about it?" he snarled, and slammed the door on his way  out.    Avis stood outside the jampacked saloon. She saw him coming and ran to  meet him. He made swab-O with his fingers and joy blazed from her.  "Mike," she cried, "I'm so happy!"    The only gentlemanly thing to do was hug her. His spirits lifted a bit 
