brown. I could pass for a member of the so-called "white" subspecies,  one who had spent most of his life in the open.    The mimicry was perfect. I hardly recognized the creature that looked  out of the mirror. My lean, square, blunt-nosed face, gray eyes,  and big hands were the same or nearly so. But my black crest had  been replaced with a shock of blond hair, my ears were small and  immobile, my skin a dull bronze, and several of Earth's languages were  hypnotically implanted in my brain--together with a set of habits and  reflexes making up a pseudo-personality which should be immune to any  tests that the rebels could think of.    I _was_ Earthling! And the disguise was self-perpetuating: the hair  grew and the skin color was kept permanent by the artificial "disease."  The biotechnicians had told me that if I kept the disguise long enough,  till I began to age--say, in a century or so--the hair would actually  thin and turn white as it did with the natives.    It was reassuring to think that once my job was over, I could be  restored to normal. It would need another series of operations and as  much time as the original transformation, but it would be as complete  and scarless. I'd be human again.    I put on the clothes they had furnished me, typical Earthly  garments--rough trousers and shirt of bleached plant fibers, jacket and  heavy shoes of animal skin, a battered old hat of matted fur known as  felt. There were objects in my pockets, the usual money and papers, a  claspknife, the pipe and tobacco I had trained myself to smoke and even  to like. It all fitted into my character of a wandering, outdoors sort  of man, an educated atavist.    I went out of the hospital with the long swinging stride of one  accustomed to walking great distances.    *       *       *       *       *    The Center was busy around me. Behind me, the hospital and laboratories 
Coordinator."    The sleeves of his tunic rolled up, the heat of North America beading  his forehead with sweat, the big man looked up at me. "Ah, yes. I'm  glad you're finally prepared. The sooner we get this thing started--"  He extended a silver galla-dust box. "Sniff? Have a seat, Conru."    I inhaled gratefully and relaxed. The Coordinator picked up a sheaf of  papers on his desk and leafed through them. "Umm-mm, only fifty-two  years old and a captain already. Remarkably able, a young man  like you. And your work hitherto has been outstanding. That Vegan  business...."    I said yes, I knew, but could he please get down to business. You  couldn't blame me for being a bit anxious to begin. Disguised as I was  as an Earthman, I felt uncomfortable, embarrassed, almost, at being  with my ex-countrymen.    The Coordinator shrugged. "Well, if you can carry this business  off--fine. If you fail, you may die quite unpleasantly. That's their  trouble, Conru: you wouldn't be regarded as an individual, but as a  Valgolian. Did you know that they even make such distinctions among  themselves? I mean races and sub-races and social castes and the like;  it's keeping them divided and impotent, Conru. It's also keeping them  out of the Empire. A shame."    *       *       *       *       *    I knew all that, of course, but I merely nodded. Coordinator Vorka was  a wonderful man in his field, and if he tended to be on the garrulous  side, what could I do? I said, "I know that, sir. I also know I was  picked for a dangerous job because you thought I could fill the role.  But I still don't know exactly what the job is."    Coordinator Vorka smiled. "I'm afraid I can't tell you much more  than you must already have guessed," he said. "The anarch movement  here--the rebels, that is--is getting no place, primarily because of  internal difficulties. When members of the same group spit epithets  
  I told him I had met one.    "Irritating, wasn't it, Conru? Humiliating. Of course, these lads  will be reconditioned to civilization when they finish their military  service and prepare for more specialized work. Yes, treating all  Earthlings alike is the solution. We put restrictions on these  colonials; they can't hold top jobs, and so on. And we encourage wild  stories about brutality on our part. Not enough to make everybody mad  at us, or even a majority--the rumored tyranny has always happened to  someone else. But there's a certain class of beings who'll get fighting  mad, and that's the class we want."    "The leaders," I chimed in. "The idealists. Brave, intelligent,  patriotic. The kind who probably wouldn't be a part of this racial  bickering, anyway."    "Right," said the Coordinator. "We'll give them the ammunition for  their propaganda. We've _been_ doing it. Result: the leaders get mad.  Races, religions, nationalities, they hate us worse than they hate each  other."    *       *       *       *       *    The way he painted it, I was hardly needed at all. I told him that.    "Ideally, that would be the situation, Conru. Only it doesn't work  that way." He took out a soft cloth and wiped his forehead. "Even the  leaders are too involved in this myth of differences and they can't  concentrate all their efforts. Luron, of course, would be the other  alternative--"    That was a very logical statement, but sometimes logic has a way of  making you laugh, and I was laughing now. Luron considered itself our  arch-enemy. With a few dozen allies on a path of conquest, Luron  thought it could wrest Empire from our hands. Well, we let them play.  And each time Luron swooped down on one of the more primitive planets,  we let them, for Luron would serve as well as ourselves in goading  backward peoples to unite and advance. Perhaps Luron, as a social  entity, grew wiser each time. Certainly the primitive colonials did. 
They'll have learned some degree of unity from this revolt and so the  next one will be more successful." He stood up and I got out of my  chair to face him. "That's for the future, though. We'll work out our  plans from the results of this campaign."    "But isn't there a lot of danger in the policy of fomenting rebellion  against us?" I asked.    He lifted his shoulders. "Evolution is always painful, forced evolution  even more so. Yes, there are great dangers, but advance information  from you and other agents can reduce the risk. It's a chance we must  take, Conru."    "Conrad," I corrected him, smiling. "Plain Mr. Conrad Haugen ... of  Earth."      II    A few days later, I left North America Center, and in spite of the  ominous need to hurry, my eastward journey was a ramble. The anarchs  would be sure to check my movements as far back as they could, and my  story had better ring true. For the present, I must _be_ my role, a  vagabond.    The city was soon behind me. It was far from other settlement--it is  good policy to keep the Centers rather isolated, and we could always  contact our garrisons in native towns quickly enough. Before long I was  alone in the mountains.    I liked that part of the trip. The Rockies are huge and serene, a fresh  cold wind blows from their peaks and roars in the pines, brawling  rivers foam through their dales and canyons--it is a big landscape,  clean and strong and lonely. It speaks with silence.    I hitched a ride for some hundreds of miles with one of the great  truck-trains that dominate the western highways. The driver was  Earthling, and though he complained much about the Valgolian tyranny he  looked well-fed, healthy, secure. I thought of the wars which had been  laying the planet waste, the social ruin and economic collapse which  the Empire had mended, and wondered if Terra would ever be fit to rule  itself.    I came out of the enormous mountainlands into the sage plains of  Nevada. For a few days I worked at a native ranch, listening to the 
  _That's up to nobody else but you!_    I couldn't get much specific information, but then I hadn't expected  to. I collected my pay and drifted on eastward, talking to people of  all classes--farmers, mechanics, shopowners, tramps, and such data as I  gathered tallied with those of Intelligence.    About twenty-five per cent of the population, in North America at  least--it was higher in the Orient and Africa--was satisfied with the  Imperium, felt they were better off than they would have been in the  old days. "The Eridanians are pretty decent, on the whole. Some of 'em  come in here and act nice and human as you please."    Some fifty per cent was vaguely dissatisfied, wanted "freedom" without  troubling to define the term, didn't like the taxes or the labor draft  or the enforced disarmament or the legal and social superiority of  Valgolians or some such thing, had perhaps suffered in the reconquest.  But this group constituted no real threat. It would tend to be passive  whatever happened. Its greatest contribution would be sporadic rioting.    The remaining twenty-five per cent was bitter, waiting its chance,  muttering of a day of revenge--and some portion of this segment was  spreading propaganda, secretly manufacturing and distributing weapons,  engaging in clandestine military drill, and maintaining contact with  the shadowy Legion of Freedom.    Childish, melodramatic name! But it had been well chosen to appeal to a  certain type of mind. The real, organized core of the anarch movement  was highly efficient. In those months I spent wandering and waiting,  its activities mounted almost daily.    *       *       *       *       *    The illegal radio carried unending programs, propaganda, fabricated  stories of Valgolian brutality. I knew from personal experience that  some were false, and I knew the whole Imperial system well enough to  spot most of the rest at least partly invented. I realized we couldn't  trace such a well-organized setup of mobile and coordinated units, and  jamming would have been poor tactics, but even so-- 
  The winter went. I continued the dreary round of days, wondering how  long it would take, wondering how much time was left. If the Legion  was at all interested, they would be checking my background right now.  Let them. There wouldn't be much to check, but what there was had been  carefully manufactured by the experts of the Intelligence Service.    Riley came into my room one evening. His face was tight, and he plunged  to business. "Con, do you really mean all you've said about the Empire?"    "Why, of course. I--" I glanced out the window, as if expecting to  see a spy. If there were any, I knew he would be native. The Empire  just doesn't have enough men for a secret police, even if we wanted to  indulge in that sort of historically ineffective control.    "You'd like to fight them? Like really to help the Legion of Freedom  when they strike?"    "You bet your obscenity life!" I snarled. "When they land on Earth,  I'll get a gun somewhere and be right there in the middle of the battle  with them!"    "Yeah." Riley puffed a cigaret for a while. Then he said, "Look, I  can't tell you much. I'm taking a chance just telling you this. It  could mean my life if you passed it on to the Eridanians."    "I won't."    His eyes were bleak. "You damn well better not. If you're caught at  that--"    He drew a finger sharply across his throat.    "Quit talking like a B-class stereo," I bristled. "If you've got  something to tell me, let's have it. Otherwise get out."    "Yeah, sure. We checked up on you, Con, and we think you're as good a  prospect as we ever came across. If you want to fight the Eridanians  now--_join the Legion_ now--here's your chance."    "My God, you know I do! But who--"    "I can't tell you a thing. But if you really want to join, memorize  this." Riley gave me a small card on which was written a name and  address. "Destroy it, thoroughly. Then quit at the mill and drift to 
IQ well over the borderline of genius, an astonishing variety of  assorted knowledge about the Empire and about technical subjects, and  an implacable hatred of Eridanian rule--based on personal pique and  containing self-seeking elements, but no less firm for that. You're out  for yourself, but you'll stand by your comrades and your cause. We'd  never hoped for more recruits of your caliber."    "When do I start?" I asked impatiently.    "Easy, easy," he smiled. "There's time. We've waited fifty years; we  can wait a while longer." He riffled through the dossier. "Actually,  the difficulty is where to assign you. A man who knows astrogation, the  use of weapons and machines, and the Empire, who is physically strong  as a bull, can lead men, and has a dozen other accomplishments, really  seems wasted on any single job. I'm not sure, but I think you'll do  best as a roving agent, operating between Main Base and the planets  where we have cells, and helping with the work at the base when you're  there."    *       *       *       *       *    My heart fairly leaped into my throat. This was more than _I_ had dared  hope for!    "I think," said Nat Hawkins, "you'd better just drop out of sight now.  Go to Hood Island and stay there till the spaceship comes next time.  You can spend the interval profitably, resting and getting a little  fattened up; you look half starved. And Barbara can tell you about the  Legion." His leather face smiled itself into a mesh of fine wrinkles.  "I think you deserve that, Conrad. And so does Barbara."    Mentally, I shrugged. My stay in New Chicago had pretty well convinced  me that all Earthling females were sluts. And what of it?    The following night, Hawkins and I rowed out to Hood Island. It lay  about a mile offshore, a wooded, rocky piece of land on which a  moon-whitened surf boomed and rattled. The place had belonged to the  Hood family since the first settlements here, but Barbara was the last 
  Later a servant showed me to my room, a big one overlooking the water.  I lay for a while listening to the waves, thinking drowsily how  rebellion, when its motives were honest, drew in the best natives of  any world, and presently I fell asleep.    The month passed all too quickly and agreeably. I learned things which  Intelligence had spent the last three years trying to find out, and  dared not attempt to transmit the information. That was maddening,  though I knew there was time. But otherwise--    I puttered about the place. There were only three servants, old family  retainers who had also joined the anarchs. They had little modern  machinery, and of course Earthlings weren't allowed robots, so there  was need for an extra man or two. I cut wood and repaired the roof and  painted the boathouse, spaded the garden and cleared out brush and set  up a new picket fence. It was good to use my hands and muscles again.    And then Barbara was around to help with most of what I did. In jeans  and jersey, the sun ablaze on her hair, laughing at my clumsy jokes or  frowning over some tough bit of work, she was another being than the  cool, lovely woman who talked books and music and history with me in  the evenings, or the crisp bitter anarch who spat facts and figures at  me like an angry machine. And yet they were all her. I remembered Ydis,  who was dead, and the old pain stirred again. But Barbara was alive.    She was more alive to me than most of Valgolia.    I make no apologies for my feelings. I had been away from anything  resembling home for some two years now. But I was careful to remain  merely friendly with Barbara.    *       *       *       *       *    She didn't know a great deal about the rebel movement--no one agent  on Earth did--but her knowledge was still considerable. There was a 
resources of their conquests. Earth is a granary and a lumberyard for  Valgolia, and the iron of Mars and the petrolite of Venus go back to  their industry. What few factories they allow us, they take their fat  percentage of the product."    "Certainly they've made us economically dependent," I said, "and  their standard of living is undoubtedly higher than ours. But ours  has, on the whole, gone up since the conquest. We eat better, we're  healthier, we aren't burdened with the cost of past and present and  future wars. Our natural resources aren't being squandered. The forests  and watersheds and farmlands we ruined are coming back under Eridanian  supervision."    She gave me an odd look. "I thought you didn't like the Empire."    "I don't," I growled. "I don't want to be held back just because I'm  white-skinned. But I've known enough reddies personally so that I try  to be fair."    "It's all right with me," she said. "I can see your point,  intellectually, though I can't really _feel_ it. But not many of the  people will out at Main Base."    "Free men," I muttered sardonically.    We went fishing, and swam in the tumbling surf, and stretched  lazily on the beach with the sun pouring over us. Or we might go  tramping off into the woods on a picnic, to run laughing back when  a sudden rain rushed out of the sky, and afterward sit with beer  and cheese sandwiches listening to a wire of Beethoven or Mozart  or Tchaikovsky--the old Earthlings could write music, if they did  nothing else!--and to the rain shouting on the roof. We might have a  little highly illegal target practice, or a game of chess, or long  conversations which wandered off every which way. I began to have a  sneaking hope that the spaceship would be delayed.    We went out one day in Barbara's little catboat. The waves danced  around us, chuckling against the hull, glittering with sunlight, and  the sail was like a snow mountain against the sky. For a while we  chatted dreamily, ate our lunch, threw the scraps to the hovering  gulls. Then Barbara fell silent. 
leaving at once for the transcontinental jetport. Just to account  for disappearing, you know. There aren't any Eridanians or Terries  hereabouts, but we desperate characters--" he grinned, briefly--"can't  be too careful. Brought my equipment along, of course. I suppose they  want me to do psychometry on fleet personnel?"    "Something on that order. I don't know."    We made our way through a fine drizzle of rain to the little torpedo of  the spaceboat. I looked around into the misty dark and breathed a deep  lungful of the cool wet wind. And I saw that Barbara was doing the same.    *       *       *       *       *    She smiled up at me through the night and the thin sad rain. "Earth is  a beautiful world, Con," she whispered. "I wonder if we'll ever see it  again."    I squeezed her hand, silently, and we crowded into the boat.    Kane made a smooth takeoff. In minutes we were beyond the atmosphere,  Earth was a great glowing shield of cloudy blue behind us, and the  stars were bitter bright against darkness. We sent a coded call  signal and got a directional beam from the ship. Before long we were  approaching it.    I studied the lean black cruiser. She seemed to be of about the same  design as the old Solarian interplanetary ships, modified somewhat to  accommodate the star drive. Apparently, she was one of those built  at Main Base. Her bow guns were dark shadows against the clotted  cold silver of the Milky Way. I thought of the death and the ruin  which could flame from them, I thought of the hell she and her kind  bore--atomic bombs, radiodust bombs, chemical bombs, disease bombs,  gravity snatchers, needle beams, disintegrative shells, darkness and  doom and the new barbarism--and felt a stiffening within me. Fostering  this murderousness was a frightful risk. The main defense against it  was Intelligence, and that depended on agents like myself. Perhaps  _only_ myself.    The crew was rather small, no battles being anticipated. But they were 
bloody snow toward us, with a crazed wind muttering and whining and  chewing at our flesh. It was cold. The cold was like a knife. Pain  stung with every breath and eyes watered with tears that froze on  suddenly numb cheeks. A great shudder ripped through us and we ran  toward the entrance to the city. The snow crunched dry and old under  our boots, the cold ate up through the soles, and the wind whistled its  scorn.    Even when an elevator had taken us a mile down into the warmth and  light of the base, we could not forget. It was a city for a million  men and other beings and more than a few women and children, a city  of long streets and small neat apartments, hydroponic farms and food  synthesizers, schools, shops and amusement places, factories, military  barracks and arsenals, even an occasional little flower garden. Its  people could live here almost indefinitely, working and waiting for  their day of rising.    There was little formality in the civilian areas. Everyone who had come  this far was trusted. A man came up to us new arrivals from Earth,  asked about conditions there, and then said he would show us to our  quarters. Later we would be told to whom we should report for duty.    "Let's go, then, Con," said Barbara, and slipped a cool little hand  into mine. I could not refrain from casting a smug backward glance at  the somewhat chapfallen Kane.      V    We slipped quickly into the routine of the place. It was a  taut-nerved, hard-working daily round. I could feel the savage  expectancy building up like a physical force, but intelligent life is  adaptable and we got used to it. There was work to do.    Hawkins was second in command of the psychological service, testing  and screening and treating personnel, working on training and  indoctrination, and with a voice in the general staff where problems  of unit coordination and psychological warfare were concerned.  Barbara worked under him, secretary and records keeper and general  trouble-shooter. Those were high posts, but both were allowed to retain  the nominally civilian status which they preferred. 
alters the fact that at present they are what they are, brilliant,  greedy, heartless, and a menace to the peace of the Galaxy. I have been  too long engaged in the struggle between my nation and theirs to think  otherwise.    Other states had sent some clandestine help to the Legion, weapons and  money and vague promises. Luron, I soon found, had said it would attack  us in full strength if the uprising showed a good chance of success,  and meanwhile, they gave assistance, credits and materiel and the still  more important machine tools, and Wergil's military advice was useful.    I know now, as I suspected even then, that Levinsohn and his associates  were not fooled as to Luron's ultimate intentions. Indeed, they  planned to make common cause with what remained of Valgolia, as well  as certain other traditional foes of their present ally, as soon as  they had gained their objectives of independence, and stop any threat  of aggression from Luron. It was shrewdly planned, but such a shaky  coalition, still bleeding with the hurts and hatreds of a struggle just  ended, would be weaker than the Empire, and Luron almost certainly  would have sowed further dissension in it and waited for its decay  before striking.    The Earthlings have a proverb to the effect that he who sups with the  Devil must use a long spoon. But they seemed to have forgotten it now.    The attack, I learned, was scheduled for about four months from  the time the agents were recalled. The rebels were counting on the  Valgolian power being spread too thinly over the Empire to stand off  their massed assault on a few key points. Then, with the home planet  a radioactive ruin, with revolt in a score of planetary systems and  the ensuing chaos and communications breakdown, and with the Luronians  invading, the Imperial fleet and military would have to make terms with  the anarchs.    *       *       *       *       *    It would work. I knew with a dark chill that it would work. Unless 
  VI    I will never forget one certain evening.    Hawkins and I had come over to Barbara's for supper, and the three of  us were sitting now, talking. Wieniawski's Violin Concerto cried its  sorrow, muted in the background, and the serene home she had made of  the bare little functional apartment folded itself around us. Then Kane  dropped in as he often did, with a casualness that fooled nobody, and  sat with all his soul in his eyes, looking at Barbara. He was a nice  kid. I didn't know why he should annoy me so.    The talk shifted to Valgolia. I found myself taking the side of my  race. It wasn't that I hoped to convert anyone, but--well, it was wrong  that we should be monsters in the sight of these friends.    "Brutes," said Kane. "Two-legged animals. Damned bald-headed,  copper-skinned giants. Wouldn't be quite so bad if they were octopi or  insects, but they're just enough different from us to be a caricature.  It's obscene."    "Sartons look like a dirty joke on mankind," I said. "Why don't you  object to them?"    "They're in the same boat as us."    "Then why mix political and esthetic prejudices? And have you ever  thought that you look just as funny to an Eridanian?"    "No race should look odd to another," said Nat Hawkins. He puffed blue  clouds. "Even by our standards, the redskins are handsome, in a more  spectacular way than humans, maybe."    "And Barbara," I smiled, with a curious little pang inside me, "would  look good to any humanoid."    "I should think so," said Kane sulkily. "The redskins took enough of  our women."    "Well," I said, "their original conquistadores were young and healthy,  very far from home, and had just finished a hard campaign where they  lost many friends. At least there were no half-breeds afterward. And  since the reconquest none of their soldiers has been permitted to have  anything to do with an Earthwoman against her consent. It's not their  fault if the consent is forthcoming oftener than you idealists think."    "That sort of thing was more or less standard procedure at home with 
  "And, of course, Epsilon Eridani honestly thinks it has a great  civilizing mission, and is much better for the natives than any lesser  independence could ever be. In some cases, you've got to admit they're  right. Have you ever seen a real simon-pure native king in action? Or  read the history of nations like Germany and Russia? And why do we  have to segregate races and minorities even in our own organization to  prevent clashes?"    "We're getting there," said Nat Hawkins. "It's not easy, but we'll make  it."    _Only you're not there yet_, I thought, _and for that reason you must  be stopped_.    "You claim they're sated," said Barbara. "But they've kept on  conquering here and there, to this very day."    "Believe it or not, but with rare exceptions that's been done  reluctantly. Peripheral systems have learned how to build star ships,  become nuisances or outright menaces, and the Empire has had to swallow  them. Modern technology is simply too deadly for anarchy. A full-scale  war can sterilize whole planets. That's another function of empire, so  the Eridanians claim--just to keep civilization going till something  better can be worked out."    "Such as what?"    "Well, several worlds already have _donagangor_ status--self-government  under the Emperor, representatives in the Imperial Council, and no  restrictions on personal advancement of their citizens. Virtual  equality with the Valgolians. And their policy is to grant such status  to any colony they think is ready for it."    Hawkins shook his head. "Won't do, Con. It sounds nice, but old Tom  Jefferson had the right idea. 'If men must wait in slavery until they  are ready for freedom, they will wait long indeed.'"    "Who said we were slaves--" I began.    "You talk like a damned reddie yourself," said Kane. "You seem to think  pretty highly of the Empire."    *       *       *       *       *    I gave him a cold look. "What do you think I'm doing here?" I snapped. 
followed thereafter seemed also to happen without my willing it.    Presently Barbara stood back from me. She was laughing, low and sweet  and joyous. "Con, you old sourpuss, cheer up! It isn't that bad, you  know!"    I managed a wry grin, though it seemed to need all the energies left in  me. "You look so happy your fool self that I have to counter-balance  it."    "Con, if you knew how I'd been hoping!"    We talked for a long time, but she did most of it--the plans, the  hopes, the trip we were going to take and the house we were going to  build down by the seashore--"Mary," my daughter, was going to have  a home, along with the dozen brothers and sisters she'd have in due  course--after the war.    After the war.    I left, finally, stumbling like a blind man toward my quarters. Oh,  yes, I loved her and she loved me and we were going to have a home and  a sailboat and a dozen children, after the war, when Earth was free.  What more could a man ask for?    It had been many years since I'd needed autohypnosis to put myself to  sleep, but I used it now.      VII    A month passed.    The delay was partly due to the slowness with which I had to work,  even after a plan had been laid. I could only do a little at a time,  and the times had to be well separated. Each day brought the moment of  onslaught closer, but I dared not hurry myself. If they caught me at my  work, there would be an end of all things.    But I cannot swear that my own mind did not prompt me to an unnatural  slowness and caution. I was only human, and every day was one more  memory.    They had all been very good to us; our friends had a party to celebrate  our engagement and we were universally congratulated and all the rest  of it. Yes, Kane was there too, shaking my hand and wishing me all the  
And then, for just a moment, there came the notion of yielding. _You  love the girl, Conru. You love her so much it's a pain in you. Well,  take her! Marry her!_    No. I was not excessively tender of heart or conscience, but neither  was I that kind of scoundrel.    I kissed her words away. Afterward, alone in the darkness of my room,  I realized that Conrad Haugen had no good reason to hang back. It was  true, all she said was true, and no other couple was waiting for an  uncertain future.    It was the time for action.    *       *       *       *       *    I had been ready for days now, postponing the moment. And those days  were marching to the time of war, the rebels were quivering to go, a  scant few weeks at most lay between me and the ruin of Valgolian plans  and work and hope.    In my steadily expanding official capacity, I could go anywhere and do  almost anything in an engineering line. So, bit by bit, I had tinkered  with the base's general alarm system.    We had scoutships posted, of course, but by the very nature of things  they had to be close to the planet or an approaching enemy would slip  between them without detection. And the substantial vibrations of  a ship traveling faster than light do not arrive much ahead of the  ship itself. Whatever warning we had of a hypothetical assault would  be very short. It would be signaled to all of us by a siren on the  intercommunications system, and after that it would be battle stations,  naval units to their ships and all others to such ground defenses as we  had.    But modern warfare is all to the offense. There is no way of stopping  an attack from space except by meeting it and annihilating it before  it gets to its destination. The rebels were counting on that fact to  aid them when they struck, but it would, of course, work against them 
  Strength came. I glanced cautiously along the dim-lit corridor, and  it was empty and silent. I stole out and hurried toward the ultrabeam  shack. My hidden switch was on the way; I threw it and ran on with  lowered head.    The siren screamed behind me, before me, around me, the howling of  all the devils in hell--_Hoo! hoo! Battle stations! Strange ships  approaching! Battle stations! All hands to battle stations! Hoo-oo!_    I could imagine the pandemonium that erupted, men boiling out of  factories and rooms, cursing and yelling and dashing frantically for  their posts--children screaming in terror, women white-faced with  sudden numbness--weapons manned, instruments sweeping the skies,  spaceships roaring heavenward, incoherent yelling on the intercoms to  find out who had given that signal. With luck, I would have fifteen  minutes or half an hour of safe insanity.    A few men raced by me, on their way to the nearest missile rack. They  paid me no heed, and I hurried along my own path.    The winding stair leading up to the ultrabeam shack loomed before me.  I went its length, three steps at a time, bounding and gasping with my  haste, up to the transmitter.    It was the tenuous link binding together a score of rebel planets, the  only communication with the stars that glittered so coldly overhead.  The ultrabeam does not have an infinite velocity, but it does have  an unlimited speed, one depending solely on the frequency of the  generating equipment, and since it only goes to such receivers as are  tuned to its pattern--there must be at least one such tuned unit for  the generator to work--it has a virtually infinite range. So men can  talk between the stars, but are their words the wiser for that?    *       *       *       *       *    Up and up and up, round and round, up and up, metal clanging underfoot  and always the demon screech of the siren--up!    I sprang from the head of the stairs and crossed the areaway in one 
"Shut up," I said. "What's coming now?"    "I checked the Fleet units. We have a Supernova with escort at Bramgar,  about fifteen light-years from where you are. You are at their base,  aren't you? Can you hold out for two days more?"    "I think so."    "Better get into the hills. We may have to bombard."    "Go to hell." I turned off the set.    Now to get back. They must already know it was a trick; they must be  scouring the base for the saboteur. As soon as all loyal men were back,  the hunt would really be on.    I had, of course, worn gloves. There would be no fingerprints. And the  operator wouldn't know who had attacked him.    I changed the scrambler setting to one picked at random. And in a  corner, as if it had fallen there by accident, I dropped a handkerchief  stolen from Wergil of Luron. The tiny fragments of tissue which  adhere to such a thing could easily be proven to be from him or one  of his associates, for the basic Luronian life-molecules are all  levo-rotatory. It might help.    I slipped back down the stairs, quickly and quietly. It was over.  The base was as good as taken. But there was more to be done. Apart  from the saving of my own life, there was still a desperate need for  secrecy. For if the rebels knew what was coming, they might choose to  stand and fight, or they might flee into the roadless wildernesses of  space. Whichever it was, all our work and sacrifice would have gone for  little.    *       *       *       *       *    The provocateur policy is the boldest and most farsighted enterprise  ever undertaken. It is the first attempt to make history as we choose,  to control the great social forces we are only dimly beginning to  understand, so that intelligence may ultimately be its own master.    Sure. Very fine and idealistic, and no doubt fairly true as well. But 
  *       *       *       *       *    And the next day the Empire came.    There was one Supernova ship with light escort, but that was enough.  Such vessels have the mass of a large asteroid, and one of them can  sterilize a planet; two or three can take it apart. Theoretically, a  task force comprising twenty Nova-class battleships with escorts can  reduce one of those monsters if it is willing to lose most of its  units. But nothing less can even do significant damage, and the rebel  base did not have that much. Nor could they get even what they had into  full action.    The ships rushed out of interstellar space, flashing the recognition  signals I had given. Before the picket vessels suspected what was  wrong, the Valgolians were on them. One managed to bleat a call to base  and the alarm screamed again, men rushed to battle stations. Then the  Imperials blanketed all communications with a snarl of interference  through which nothing the rebels had could drive.    So naturally they were thought to have been annihilated in a few swift  blazes of fire and steel, a quick clean death and forgetfulness of  defeat. But only the drivers were crippled, and then the Supernova  yanked the vessels to its titan flanks and held them in unbreakable  gravity beams. The crews would be taken later, with narcotic gas or  paralyzer beams--alive.    For the Empire needs its rebels.    I knew the uselessness of going to battle stations, so I hung behind,  seeking out Barbara, whose place was with the missile computer bank. I  met her and Kane in the hallway. The boy's face was white, and there  were tears running down his cheeks.    "This is the end," he said. "They've found us out, and there's nothing  left but to die. Good by, Barbara." He kissed her, wildly, and ran for  his ship. Moodily, I watched him go. He expected death, and he would  get only capture, and afterward-- 
  That was important--and it made me feel good. Yes, we'd be together;  I'd see to that. But for a while Barbara would hate me through all  the long years of the indoctrination. Someday, perhaps, she would  understand ... the indoctrination could do it, and I could help. But by  the gods of space, how would it be to take that hate all that while?    *       *       *       *       *    We came out into the central chamber where the prisoners were gathering  to be herded up to the ships. Armed Valgolian guards stood under the  glare of improvised lights. Other Imperials were going through the  city, flushing out those who might be hiding and removing whatever our  armed forces could use. The equipment would do no one any good here,  and Boreas would be left to its darkness.    It was cold in the vast shadowy room. The heating plant had broken down  and the ancient cold of Boreas was seeping in. Barbara shivered and I  held her close to me. Nat Hawkins moved over to join us, wordlessly.    I was questioned in a locked room by one of the big Valgolian officers.  He looked at a stereograph in his hand and he took me aside, but it was  not unusual. Many of the starbound prisoners were being questioned by  their guards, and I was merely one of them.    "Colonel Halgan?" the officer asked with an eagerness close to  hero-worship. He was obviously fresh from school and military  terminology came from his lips as if it really meant something to a  Valgolian. The colonel, of course, meant that in a titular sense I had  been elevated for my work. Funny, if you use the language enough, you  get to believe it yourself.    "Sir," the young officer continued, "this is one of the greatest pieces  of work I've ever seen. I am to extend the official congratulations  of--"    I let him talk for a while and then I raised my hand peremptorily and I 
