A SECTION  J. KIELGAARD  DIRECTOR    A pretty receptionist goggled at him and said to go in. Dan opened the  inner door.    Kielgaard--big, stocky, expensively dressed--looked up and studied Dan  as he came in. Apparently satisfied, he offered a chair, then took out  a small plastic cartridge and held it in one hand.    "Dan," he said, "what do you know about subspace and null-points?"    "Practically nothing," admitted Dan honestly.    *       *       *       *       *    Kielgaard laughed. "Then I'll fill you in with the layman's analogy,  which is all _I_ know. Suppose you have a newspaper with an ant on the  middle of the front page. To get to the middle of page two, the ant  has to walk to the edge of the paper, then walk back on the inside.  Now suppose the ant could go _through_ the page. The middle of page  two is just a short distance away from the middle of page one. That  going _through_, instead of around, is like travel in subspace. And  a null-point is a place just a short distance away, going through  subspace. The middle of page two, for instance, is a null-point for the  middle of page one."    "Yes," said Dan patiently, waiting for the point of the interview.    Kielgaard pushed the plastic cartridge he'd been holding through a slot  in his desk. A globe to one side lighted up a cottony white, with faint  streaks of blue. "This," he said, "is Porcys."    Dan studied the globe. "Under that cloud blanket, it looks as if it  might be a water world."    "It is. Except for a small continent, the planet is covered with water.  And the water is full of seafood--_edible_ seafood."    Dan frowned, still waiting.    "Galactic Enterprises," said Kielgaard, "has discovered a region in  subspace which has Porcys for one null-point and Earth for another." 
  "Right," said Kielgaard. "Only they aren't doing it. We've spied both  planets till we can't see straight. Fumidor has a mine entrance and a  mataform center. Vacation Planet has a mataform center and one or two  big buildings. And that's it. There's no emigration from Porcys to the  other two planets. Instead, there's a sort of cycling flow from Porcys  to Vacation Planet to Fumidor to Porcys. Why?    "The Porcyn we brain-spied," he went on, "associated Vacation Planet  with 'rejuvenation.' What does that mean we're up against? Galactic  wants to make a contract, but not till they know what they're  dealing with. There are some races it's best to leave alone. This  'rejuvenation' might be worth more than the seafood, sure, but it could  also be a sackful of trouble."    Dan waited, realizing that Kielgaard had come to the crux of the matter.    Kielgaard said, "Galactic wants us to find the answers to three  problems. One, how do the Porcyns keep the size of their population  down? Two, what is the connection between rejuvenation and 'Vacation  Planet'? And three, do the Porcyns have a proper mercantile attitude?  Are they likely to make an agreement? Will they keep one they do make?"    Kielgaard looked intently at Dan. "The only way we're likely to  find the answers in a reasonable time is to send someone in. You're  elected."    "Just me?" asked Dan in surprise. "All your eggs in one basket?"    "In a situation like this," said Kielgaard, "one good man is worth  several gross of dubs. We're relying on you to keep your eyes open and  your mind on what you're doing."    "And suppose I don't come back?"    "Galactic probably loses the jump it's got on Trans-Space and you miss  out on a big bonus."    "When do I leave?"    "Tomorrow morning. But today you'd better go down and pick up a set of  Porcyn clothes we've had made for you and some of their money. It'd  be a good idea to spend the evening getting used to things. We've  implanted in your brain the Porcyn language patterns we brain-spied 
violent electrical storm which lasted into the early morning.    Dan spent the whole night nauseously gripping the edge of his bunk, his  legs braced against the violent heave and lurch of the trawler.    Before dawn of the next day, aching in every muscle, his insides sore  and tender, his mind fuzzy from lack of sleep, Dan was set ashore on a  dark, quiet and foggy strip of beach. He stood for a moment in the soft  sand, feeling it seem to dip underfoot.    This, he thought, was undoubtedly the worst start he had ever made on  any planet anywhere.    From around him in the impenetrable fog came distant croakings,  whistlings and hisses. The sounds were an unpleasant suggestion that  something else had gone wrong. Between bouts of sickness, Dan had tried  to arrange with the crew to land him near the outskirts of a Porcyn  city. But the sounds were those of the open country.    What Dan wanted was to go through the outskirts of the city before  many people were moving around. He could learn a great deal from their  homes, their means of transportation and the actions of a few early  risers. He could learn from the things he expected to see, or from the  lack of them, _if_ he was there to see them.    Dan moved slowly inland, crossed a ditch and came to what seemed to  be a macadam road. He checked his directions and started to walk. He  forced the pace so his breath came hard, and hoped it would pump some  life into his dulled brain and muscles.    As his senses gradually began to waken, Dan became aware of an odd  _swish-swish, swish-swish_, like a broom dusting lightly over the  pavement behind him. The sound drew steadily closer.    Dan halted abruptly.    The sound stopped, too.    He walked on.    _Swish-swish._    He whirled.    Silence.    *       *       *       *       * 
straight border with no transition between city and farmland.    There was a faint hum. Then a long, low streak, its front end rounded  like a horseshoe crab, shot out of the tunnel under the building beside  him and vanished along the road where he'd just been walking.    Now Dan saw a small modest sign beside the road.    Care  High-Speed  Vehicles Only  --_Swept_--    Dan crossed the rail at the end of the street with great caution.    The Porcyn clothing he was wearing consisted of low leather boots,  long green hose, leather shorts, a bright purple blouse and a sky-blue  cape. Dan bunched the cape in his hand and thrust it ahead of him as  he crossed the rail, for some races were finicky about their exits and  entrances. The straight, sharp boundary between city and farmland,  and the identical buildings, suggested to Dan that here was a race  controlled by strict rules and forms, and he was making an obviously  unauthorized entrance.    It was with relief that he stood on the opposite side, within the city.  He glanced back at the sign and wondered what "Swept" meant. Then he  gave his attention to the buildings ahead of him.    *       *       *       *       *    Low at first, the buildings rose regularly to a greater height, as far  as the fog would let him see. Dan remembered the storm of the night  before and wondered if the progressive heightening of the buildings was  designed to break the force of the wind. The buildings themselves were  massive, with few and narrow windows, and wide heavy doors opening on  the street.    Dan walked farther into the city and found that the street took  right-angle bends at regular intervals, probably also to break the  wind. There was no one in sight, and no vehicles.  
Walking quietly among them was a tawny animal with the look and lordly  manner of a lion.    It _was_ a lion.    As far as the rapidly dispersing fog let him see, the avenue ran  straight in one direction. In the other, it ended a block or so away.  Apparently the crooked, wind-breaking streets were only on the edge of  the city.    Dan thought of the questions Kielgaard wanted him to answer:    1, how do the Porcyns keep the size of their population down?    2, what is the connection between rejuvenation and Vacation Planet?    3, do the Porcyns have a proper mercantile attitude? Are they likely to  make an agreement? Will they keep one they do make?    To find the answers, Dan intended to work his way carefully through  the city. If nothing went wrong, he should be able to see enough to  eliminate most of the possibilities. Already he had seen enough to  make Porcyns look unpromising. The rigid city boundary, the strict  uniformity of the buildings and the uniform pattern of the clothing  suggested a case-hardened, ingrown way of living.    *       *       *       *       *    Across the street, a low door to one side of the apartment building's  main entrance came open. The lion walked out.    It was carrying a squirming little boy by his bunched-up cape. The big  creature flopped down, pinned the struggling boy with a huge paw and  methodically started to clean him. The rasp of the animal's tongue  could be heard clearly across the street.    The boy yelled.    A healthy-looking girl of about twelve, wearing a cape diagonally  striped in yellow and red, ran over and rescued the boy. The lion  rolled over on its back to have its belly scratched.    Dan scowled and walked toward the near end of the street. On  less advanced planets, where the danger of detection was not so  great, agents often went in with complex, surgically inserted 
running back and forth from several long wharves. On the street ahead,  a number of heavy wagons, drawn by six-legged animals with heads like  eels, bumped and rattled toward the wharves. Behind them ran a crowd  of boys in yellow capes, a big tawny lioness trotting among them. On  the sidewalk nearby strode a few powerfully built old men, their capes  of various colors.    Dan glanced at the displays in front of the shops. Some were cases of  fish on ice. Others were piles of odd vegetables in racks. Dan paused  to look at a stack of things like purple carrots.    A man immediately came forward from the rear of the store, wiping his  hands on his apron. Dan moved on.    The next shop had the universal low boots, shorts, skirts, blouses and  hose, in assorted sizes and colors, but no capes. Dan slowed to glance  at the display and saw the proprietor coming briskly from the dark  interior, rubbing his hands. Dan speeded up and got away before the  proprietor came out.    The Porcyns, he thought, seemed at least to have a proper mercantile  attitude.      III    Dan passed another fish market, then came to a big, brightly polished  window. Inside was a huge, chromium-plated bar-bell on a purple velvet  cloth. Behind it were arranged displays of hand-grips, exercise  cables, dumb-bells and skipping ropes. The inside of the store was  indirectly lighted and expensively simple. The place had an air that  was quiet, lavish and discreet. It reminded Dan of a well-to-do funeral  establishment. In one corner of the window was a small, edge-lighted  sign:    You Never Know What the  Next Life Will Be Like.    In the other corner of the window was a polished black plate with a  dimly glowing bulb in the center. Around the bulb were the words:    Your Corrected Charge--  Courtesy of Save-Your-Life Co.    A tall, heavily muscled man in a dark-blue cape stepped outside.    "Good morning, Devisement," he said affably. "I see you're a stranger 
  "Good _dog_!" cried the man.    Men in the shops' doorways echoed his shout.    "A _kid_," said the man. "They have to learn sometime, I know, but--"  He cut himself short. "Well, all's well that ends well." He glanced  respectfully at Dan. "If you're here any length of time, sir, we'd  certainly appreciate your looking into this. And if you're planning to  stay long--well, as you see, our sweepers are hungry--our main store  is on 122 Center Street. Our vacation advisor might be of some service  to you."    "Thank you," said Dan, his throat dry.    "Not at all, Devisement." The man went inside, muttering, "A _kid_."    Dan passed several more shops without seeing very much. He turned  the corner. Across the street, where the boy had been, was a dented  brass plate at the base of the building. On Dan's side of the street,  trotting toward him, was a big, tawny-maned lion. Dan hesitated, then  started up the street.    There was a faint clash of metal.    _Swish-swish._    *       *       *       *       *    A net seemed to form in the air and close around him. There was a feel  of innumerable hairy spiders running over him from head to foot. The  net vanished. Something wrapped around his ankle and yanked.    The lion growled.    There was a loud _clang_ and Dan's foot was free. He looked down and  saw a brass plate labeled SWEEPER.    Dan decided it might be a good idea to see the Save-Your-Life Co.'s  vacation advisor. He started out to locate 122 Center Street and gave  all brass plates a wide berth on the way.    He strode through a briskly moving crowd of powerfully built men and  women in capes of various colors, noticing uneasily that they were  making way for him. He studied them as they passed, and saw capes of  red, green, dark blue, brown, purple, and other shades and combinations 
to another across the street. Just on the other side of the crowd was  the entrance to the main store of the Save-Your-Life Co.    *       *       *       *       *    Dan crossed the street and saw a very average-looking man, wearing an  orange cape, come to a stop at the corner and look shrewdly around.    Dan blinked and looked again. _The man in orange was no Porcyn._    The man's glance fell on the statue and his lips twisted in an amused  smile. He looked up toward the rope, then down at the crowd, and then  studied the backs of the crowd and the fronts of the stores around him,  the lids of his eyes half-closed in a calculating look.    A brass plate nearby popped open, a net of delicate hairy tendrils  ran over him, and something like a length of tarred one-inch rope  snaked out and wrapped around his legs. An outraged expression crossed  his face. His hand came up. The rope yanked. He fell on the sidewalk.  The rope hauled him into the hole. The brass plate snapped shut. From  inside came a muffled report.    It occurred to Dan that Galactic was not the only organization  interested in Porcys.    Dan looked thoughtfully at the brass plate for a moment, then walked  toward the entrance of the Save-Your-Life Co., past display windows  showing weights, cables, parallel bars, trapezes and giant springs with  handles on each end.    He tried the door. It didn't move.    A clerk immediately opened the door and took Dan along a cool, chaste  hallway to an office marked "Vacation Advisor." Here a suave-looking  man made an offhand remark about the birth rate, took a sudden look  at Dan's cape, blinked, stiffened, glanced at Dan's midsection and  relaxed. He went through his files and gave Dan a big photograph  showing a smiling, healthy, middle-aged couple and a lovely girl about  nineteen.    "These are the Milbuns, sir. Mr. Milbun is a merchant at present. 
Carefully avoiding brass plates, Dan made his way along an avenue of  shops devoted to exercise and physical fitness. He came to Runfast  Blvd. and located 6140, which looked like the apartment houses he had  seen earlier.    He tried the outer door; it was locked. When someone came out, Dan  caught the door and stepped in. As the door shut, he tried it and found  it was locked again. He stood for a moment trying to understand it, but  his sleeplessness of the night before was catching up with him. He gave  up and went inside.    There were no elevators on the ground floor. Dan had his choice of six  ropes, two ladders and a circular staircase. He went up the staircase  to the third floor, where he saw a single elevator. He rode it up to  the sixth, got off and found that there was a bank of four elevators on  this floor.    He looked at the elevators a minute, felt himself getting dizzy, and  walked off to locate apartment 6B.    A powerfully built gray-haired man of middle height answered his  knock. Dan introduced himself and explained why he had come.    Mr. Milbun beamed and his right hand shot forward. Dan felt like a man  with his hand caught in an airlock.    "Lerna!" called Milbun. "Lerna! Mavis! We have a guest for vacation!"    Dan became aware of a rhythmical clinking somewhere in the back of the  apartment. Then a big, strong-looking woman, obviously fresh from the  kitchen, hurried in, smiling. If she had been ill, she was clearly  recovered now.    "Ah, how are you?" she cried. "We're so happy to have you!" She gripped  his hand and called, "_Mavis!_"    The clinking stopped. A beautifully proportioned girl came in, wearing  a sweatshirt and shorts. "Mother, I simply have to get off another  pound or so--Oh!" She stared at Dan.    "Mavis," said Mr. Milbun, "this is Mr. Dan Redman. Devisement, my  daughter Mavis."    "You're going with us!" she said happily. "How wonderful!"    "Now," said Mr. Milbun, "I imagine his Devisement wants to get a little 
  Feeling that his brain was functioning in a vacuum, Dan followed the  Milbuns into the hall, climbed down six stories on a ladder, then into  the basement on a rope. He found himself in a room with a stony dirt  track around the wall, ropes festooning the ceiling, an irregularly  shaped pool, and artificial shrubs and foliage from behind which sprang  mechanical monsters. The Milbuns promptly vanished behind imitation  vine-covered doors and came out again in gym clothes.    Dan went through the doorway Mr. Milbun had come out of and discovered  that the Save-Your-Life Co. had a machine inside which dispensed  washed, pressed and sterilized gym clothes for a small fee. The machine  worked by turning a selector dial to the proper size, pressing a lever,  and then depositing the correct fee in an open box on the wall nearby.  Dan studied this a moment in puzzlement, guessed his proper size and  put the correct payment in the box.    He put on the gym clothes and went outside.    For forty-five minutes, mechanical creatures of odd and various shapes  sprang at him from behind shrubbery, gripped him when he passed holes  in the floor and wound themselves around his legs as he tried to swim  in the pool.    His temper worsened. He stopped to look at Mavis as she swayed,  laughing, on a rope above two things like mobile giant clamshells.    Mr. Milbun shook his head. "Mavis, remember, we're leaving _tomorrow_."    Just then, something snarled and lunged at Dan from the side. There was  a flash of teeth.    Dan whirled. His fist shot out. There was a scream of machinery, then  a crash and a clatter. An imitation monster with a huge jaw and giant  teeth lay on its back on the floor.    Milbun let out a slow whistle. "_Dismounted_ it. Boy!"    "A one-bite, too," breathed Mavis.    Mrs. Milbun came over and looked at Dan approvingly.    Dan had been about to apologize, but checked himself when the others  smiled cheerfully and went back to what they were doing. This consisted  of dodging, tricking or outrunning the various contraptions that lunged 
  Dan fell asleep, content that he had the answer to that part of the  problem, at least.    Before it was light, he awoke to an odd familiar buzz inside his head.    "Dan," said Kielgaard's voice, small and remote.    Dan rolled over, lay on his back and spoke sub-vocally. "Right here."    "Can you talk?"    "Yes," said Dan, "if I can stay awake."    "Can you give us a summary?"    "Sure." Dan told him briefly what had happened.    Kielgaard was silent a moment. Then he said, "What do you think  'charge' is?"    "I haven't been in any condition to think. Maybe it's a surgically  implanted battery, set to run down after so long."    "Too clumsy. What about radioactivity?"    "H'm. Yes, you mentioned a mine on the inner planet. Maybe they mine  radioactive ore. That would explain why I have _some_ charge. There's  residual radioactivity even in the atmosphere of Earth."    "That's so," said Kielgaard. "But not every planet has it. I'm  wondering about this other agent you mentioned seeing. He sounds to me  like someone from Trans-Space. And that's bad."    "They play dirty," Dan conceded.    *       *       *       *       *    "Worse than that," said Kielgaard's tiny voice. "They recruit their  agents from Lassen Two. Maybe that's a break. Unlike Earth, Lassen Two  is nearly radiation-free. And Trans-Space doesn't use finesse. They'll  pump Porcys full of agents loaded down with organo-transmitters.  Visual, auditory and olfactory. They'll broadcast on every wave-length,  suck out as much information in as short a time as they can, then  either pull some dirty trick or slam the Porcyns an offer. That is, if  everything goes according to plan.    "But meanwhile," he added, "one or more of their agents is bound to  stand in front of a free 'Your charge' device somewhere in the city.  Very likely, that agent will be radiation-free and some Porcyn, for 
could sleep in a heaving boat in a thunderstorm?    "This changes things," Kielgaard was saying. "I'm going to see if we  can get a little faster action."    "I think I'd better get some more sleep," Dan answered. "I may need it  tomorrow."    "I agree," said Kielgaard. "You'll have to keep your eyes open. Good  night, Dan, and good luck."    "Thanks."    Dan rolled over on his side. He tried for a moment to remember how  the other agent had been standing and whether anyone had been between  them to block his view, but he couldn't be sure. Dan decided there was  nothing to do but assume the worst. He blanked his mind. Soon a feeling  of deep weariness came over him and he fell asleep.    *       *       *       *       *    In the morning, Dan and the Milbuns ate a hurried breakfast. Dan helped  Mr. Milbun grease his rowing machine, weights, springs and chinning  bar, so they wouldn't rust in his absence. Milbun worked in a somber  mood. All the Milbuns, in fact, were unusually quiet for a family going  on vacation. When they went out into the hall, carrying no baggage,  they even took the elevator to the third floor.    "Better save our strength," said Mr. Milbun.    The street seemed to Dan to have a different atmosphere. People were  walking quietly in groups, their eyes cool and alert. The Milbuns  walked in front of the apartment houses Dan had passed the day before,  and across the street he saw the place where the chiseled motto had  read:    Freedom  Devisement  Fraternity    It was gone. Some workmen nearby were lifting a stone slab onto a cart.  Dan blinked. The motto now read:    Alertness  Devisement  Vigilance    The Milbuns plainly noticed it, too. They drew closer together and 
They came to a large building with a long flight of broad wide steps.  Across the face of the building was boldly and sternly lettered, high  up:    HALL OF TRUTH    Lower down was the motto:    "Speak the Truth--  Live Yet a While With Us."      V    On one side of the stairs as they climbed was a statue of a man,  smiling. On the other side was an urn with a bunch of carved flowers  lying beside it.    A big bronze door stood open at the top. They walked through into a  large chamber with massive seats in triple rows along two walls, and a  single row of yet more massive seats raised along the farther wall.    A bored-looking man got up from a low desk as the Milbuns sat down in  three of the massive seats.    The man asked in a dreary voice, "Have you, to the best of your  knowledge, committed any wrong or illegal act or acts since your last  vacation?" He picked up a whiskbroom and pan and waited for their  answers.    "No," said the three Milbuns in earnest quavering voices.    The man looked at each of them, shrugged and said boredly, "Pass  through to your vacations, live law-abiding citizens." He beckoned  impatiently to Dan, turned to scowl at him, saw Dan's cape, stiffened,  looked hastily out to the statue framed by the doorway, relaxed  slightly and inquired respectfully, "Is it time for you to go on  vacation, Devisement?"    "It seems to be," said Dan.    "I think you should, sir. Then you'd be still more helpful if called."    Dan nodded noncommittally and sat down in one of the massive chairs.  His glance fell on an ornamental carving above the big doorway. It was  a set of scales held by a giant hand. In one pan of the scales sat a  smiling man. In the other was a small heap of ashes.    "Have you," asked the bored man, "to the best of your knowledge, 
  *       *       *       *       *    Life on the spaceship seemed to be given over to silent, morose  meditation, with an occasional groan that sounded very much like, "Oh,  give me just one more chance, God."    When they left the ship, it was again by mataform, this time to a  building where they stood in a line of people. The line wound through  a booth where the color of their capes was marked on their foreheads,  thence past a counter where they received strong khaki-colored capes,  blouses and hose, and new leather shorts and boots to replace those  they were wearing. They changed in tiny private rooms, handed their  own clothing in at another counter, had a number stamped on their left  shoulders and on their boxes of clothing.    Then they walked out onto a strip of brilliant white sand, fronting on  an inlet of sparkling blue water.    Here and there huddled little crowded knots of people, dancing from one  foot to another on the hot sand and yet apparently afraid to go in the  water. Dan looked to the Milbuns for some clue and saw them darting  intense calculating glances at the beach and the water.    Then Mr. Milbun yelled, "_Run for it!_"    A slavering sound reached Dan's ear. He sprinted after the Milbuns,  burst through the crowd in a headlong bolt for the cove, then swam as  fast as he could to keep up with them as they raced for the opposite  shore. They crawled out, strangling and gasping, and dragged themselves  up on the sand. Dan lay, heaving in deep breaths, then rolled over and  sat up.    The air around them was split by screams, laced through with sobs,  curses and groans. On the shore opposite, a mad dog darted across  the crowded beach and emptied people into the cove. In the cove, a  glistening black sweep of hide separated the water for an instant, then  sank below. People thrashed, fought and went under. 
just to live from one day to the next.    Even the Milbuns were saying that this was the worst vacation ever.  Trails slid out from under them. Trees fell toward them. Boulders  bounded down steep slopes at them.    At first, the Milbuns tried to remember forgotten sins for which all  this might be repayment. But when there was the dull _boom_ of an  explosion and they narrowly escaped a landslide, Milbun looked at the  rocks across the trail with sunken red eyes. He sniffed the air and  growled, "Undevised."    That afternoon, Dan and the Milbuns passed three average-looking men  hanging by their hands from the limb of a tree beside the trail.  The faces of the hanging men bore a surprised expression. They hung  perfectly still and motionless, except for a slight swaying caused by  the wind.    Dan and the Milbuns reached a mataform station late that afternoon.    A very hard-eyed guard in an orange cape, barred across the shoulders  in black, let them through and they found themselves in another  spaceship, bound for Fumidor, the mining planet.    *       *       *       *       *    Dan sat back exhausted and fell asleep. He was awakened by a determined  buzz.    "_Dan!_" said Kielgaard's voice.    "Yes." Dan sat up. "Go ahead."    "Trans-Space is going to try to take over Porcys. There's nothing you  can do about that, but they've landed agents on Vacation Planet to pick  you off. Look out."    Dan told Kielgaard what had happened to the agents on Vacation Planet,  such as the "undevised" explosion and being hung up by the hands.    Kielgaard whistled. "Maybe the Porcyns can take care of themselves.  Trans-Space doesn't think so."    "How did you find out?"    The tiny voice held a note of grim satisfaction. "They ran an agent in  on us and he gave himself away. He went back with an organo-transmitter  inside him, and a memory bank. The bank stores up the day's 
sensible plan. Then he began trying to organize what he had seen and  heard during his stay on the planet. At night, Kielgaard helped him and  together they went over their theories, trying to find those that would  fit the facts of Porcys.    "It all hinges on population pressure," said Kielgaard finally. "On  most planets we know of, overpopulation leads to war, starvation,  birth control or emigration. These are the only ways. At least, they  were, till we discovered Porcys."    *       *       *       *       *    "All right," agreed Dan. "Grant that. The Porcyns plainly don't have  any of those things, or not to any great extent. Instead, they have  institutions such as we've never seen before. They have 'sweepers,'  so-called 'vacations' and a rope from building to building. All these  things cut down population."    "Don't forget their 'truth chairs,'" said Kielgaard.    "Where you either tell the truth or get converted to ashes--yes. But  how does it all fit in?"    "Let's take one individual as an example. Start at birth."    "He's born," said Dan. "Probably they have nurseries, but we know they  stick together as families, because we have the Milbuns to go by. He  grows up, living at his parents' place. He goes with other children to  school or to see different parts of his city. A lion--which he calls a  'dog'--protects him."    "Yes," said Kielgaard. "It protects him from sweepers. But most  grownups don't need protection. Only those whose charge is low."    "Of course. The boy hasn't been on vacation yet. He's not radioactive.  Apparently you have to be radioactive to open doors. At the apartment  house, the boy comes in a small door to one side. The lions, or what  resemble lions, like the children but don't like the sweepers. And the  sweepers are afraid of them. All right. But what about when he grows  up?"    "Well, for one thing, he has to use the regular doors now. And they 
hand does nothing but keep the circle--their system--from flying apart.  What puzzles me is that they're satisfied with it."    "There's another point," Dan said, "but I think I see it now. They've  got a caste system, but people must be able to move from one caste to  another. There must be a competitive exam or some system of choice.  The vacation advisor said Mr. Milbun was 'at present' a merchant. His  wife was 'now' a housewife. And no one ever asked my name, though I  told it voluntarily to Milbun. It was always 'Yes, Devisement,' or 'Is  it time to take your vacation, Devisement?' There were no personal  titles like 'Sir Moglin,' or 'First Magistrate Moglin,' such as we've  encountered on other planets."    Kielgaard grunted. "That would explain the differently colored capes,  too. No one would care if a man was a street-cleaner ten years ago.  They'd see his cape was blue and give him immediate, automatic respect."    "Yes," said Dan. "That's it. And no one would dare _cheat_ about  the color of the cape he wore, because, regardless of his position,  sooner or later his charge would be gone. Then he would have to go on  vacation. And to do _that_, he _has_ to sit in the truth chair and tell  the truth or get incinerated." Dan stopped suddenly and sucked in a  deep breath.    "What's wrong?" asked Kielgaard.    "_That's_ the weak point."      VI    By the end of the week, Dan was able to pass through a door with a  specialized type of Geiger counter in the locking circuit.    And by that time, Kielgaard had noted sharp fluctuations in the mood  at Trans-Space. There had been an interval of wild confusion, but it  hadn't lasted. Many more Trans-Space agents had gone to Porcys and  Trans-Space seemed to be on top again.    The instant Dan stepped from the mines through the door marked "Out,"  he was rushed through a shower, a shave and a haircut, shoved into  a truth chair and asked questions, given a new cape and clothes,  and buckled into a glittering belt by a purple-caped man addressed 
Dan's throat felt dry.    "Sir," said the Porcyn desperately, "you _must_ devise something! What  shall we do?"    A faint tingling at Dan's waist suggested to him that he choose his  words carefully. One lie or bad intention and the belt of power would  probably finish him.    He thought carefully. The total power of the Porcyn planet must be at  least the equal of even the huge Trans-Space organization. And Porcys  had its power all in one place. The planet was organized to the last  ounce of energy, if only it could be brought to bear in time.    Dan ordered his anxious companions to take him to Porcys.    *       *       *       *       *    Far under the Central City, which was the city he had seen, he found  a weary, powerful old man in a light-blue cape and glittering belt,  directing operations from a television command post. The console  showed street scenes of men in sky-blue capes and flashing belts, who  danced and jabbered, their faces aglow with lunacy as they rapped out  conflicting orders and the people jerked and dashed this way and that,  tears running down their faces.    Near the statue, before the Hall of Truth, close ranks of Porcyn men in  orange-and-black capes stood massed on the steps, holding sleek-bored  guns. On the street below, gibbering lunatics in sky-blue danced and  shrieked orders, but the eyes of the men on the steps were tightly  shut. By a technicality, they avoided obedience to the lunacy, for  with their eyes shut, how could they be sure who gave the command?    At the belted statue itself, a man in blue was clinging to one bronze  arm as he slammed down a hammer to knock loose the partly broken  circle. The statue obstinately refused to let go. At the base of  the statue, holding a microphone, stood an average-looking man in a  sky-blue cape, his lips drawn back in an amused smile. He gestured to  men with crowbars and they tried to jam them between the statue and its 
  The Trans-Space leader raised his microphone.    Dan ripped it out of his hand and knocked him off his feet, then knelt  and picked up the heavy shield that had been taken off the statue to  get at the ring.    A bullet hummed over Dan's head.    With a rush of air and a heavy smash, the statue landed full length on  the ground. Dan hauled himself up onto its base. Another bullet buzzed  past him. Then there was a yell, and Dan looked down in the street.    The sweepers were horrible as they poured from their holes, but they  looked almost beautiful to Dan. He glanced at the Porcyns massed on the  steps, their faces white with near-hysteria. Their eyes were open and  watching him; the Trans-Space men were too busy to give orders.    Dan raised the microphone and his voice boomed out:    "_Close your eyes till you hear the roar of the lion! Then obey your  true leaders!_"    He repeated the order three times before it dawned on the Trans-Space  technicians that this was not according to plan. The loudspeaker gave  a booming click and cut off. By then, the sweepers had been killed and  Dan became aware of bullets thrumming past him. Suddenly he felt weak  with panic that the rest of the plan had fallen apart.    Up the street, Porcyn men were unscrewing a cap on the face of a  building. They connected a hose. A sky-blue-caped Trans-Space agent  ordered them away. The Porcyns turned, wads of wax in their ears, and  raised the hose.    A stream of water knocked the agents backward. Shots rang out. Porcyns  fell, but other Porcyns took their places. The stream arched and fell  on the Trans-Space agents and abruptly a whirl of color tinged the  water. Blots and blobs of green, orange, pink and yellow spattered the  blue-caped agents.    At the end of the street, someone ran up tugging a lion by the mane.    "_Go_, dog! _Run!_"    Somewhere a child cried out in terror.    The lion roared.    The troops on the steps opened their eyes. 
spattered and smeared till they could hardly be recognized, lay  motionless on the pavement    Then the scene swung up and away, and Dan felt weightless. Something  hit him hard. His head bounced and he rolled over. Soft grass was in  his face. It smelled fresh.    There was a dull boom that moved the ground under him.    He twisted his head to look up.    A massive arm was stretched out over him, its hand firmly gripping the  cut edges of a big metal ring.    Somewhere a drum took up a steady monotonous beat.    He fell into a deep black quiet and all the sights and sounds grew  smaller and fainter and disappeared entirely.    *       *       *       *       *    He awoke in a Porcyn hospital. Kielgaard was there, wearing a broad  grin and brilliant Porcyn clothes and promising Dan a huge bonus. But  it was all like a dream.    Kielgaard said the Porcyns were as mad as hornets. They had raised a  battle fleet and it had taken a corps of diplomats and the Combined  Intergalactic Space Fleet to argue them out of personally chopping  Trans-Space into fine bits. No one knew what would finally happen, but  meanwhile Galactic had its contract and everyone was tentatively happy.    His account finished, Kielgaard grinned more broadly yet and switched  on a bedside televiewer.    Dan lifted his head off the pillow and looked at the screen. Then he  stared.    It was the statue, solid once more on its base, the ring grasped  firmly in one hand and a big wrench in the other. But something seemed  different.    Dan at last saw what it was.    It was the face. It wasn't a bad face, if one expected to see strong  cheekbones, copper skin and a high-arched nose.    "What a compliment!" he said, embarrassedly pleased. "I--hell, I feel  like blushing."    "Make it a good one," said Kielgaard. "After tomorrow, you'll have to 
