sending the space-ship _Scorpion_ crashing through the dome  unmanned, and he, Friday and Eliot Leithgow were caught up  in the out-rushing flood of air and catapulted into space,  free of the dome and Dr. Ku Sui. Clad as they were in the  latter's self-propulsive space-suits, they were quite  capable of reaching Jupiter's Satellite III, only some  thirty thousand miles away.    "Then speeding through space, Captain Carse discovered why  he had never been able to find the asteroid-stronghold. He  could not see it! Dr. Ku Sui had protected his lair by  making it invisible! But Carse was at least confident that  by breaking the dome he had destroyed all life within in,  including the coordinated brains.    "So ended The Affair of the Brains.[1]    "The three comrades reached Satellite III safely, where,  after a few minor adventures, Captain Carse...."    [Footnote 1: See the March, 1932, Issue of Astounding Stories.]    Sewell's ruthless surgery is most evident in that last paragraph. Of  course his telescoping of the events was due to limited space; but  he did wish to draw a full-length, character-revealing portrait of  Hawk Carse, and with "... reached Satellite III safely, where, after a  few minor adventures, Captain Carse ..." learned old John Sewell slid  over one of his greatest opportunities.    The resourcefulness of Hawk Carse! In these "few minor adventures" he  had but one weapon with which to joust against overwhelming odds on an  apparently hopeless quest. This weapon was a space-suit--nothing  more--yet so brilliantly and daringly did he wield its unique  advantages that he penetrated seemingly impregnable barriers and  achieved alone what another man would have required the ray-batteries  of a space-fleet to do.    But here is the story, heard first from Friday's lips and told and 
slept, who drove off unconsciousness and fought through nausea to keep  at his task of shepherding, failing which they would have drifted  miles apart and become hopelessly separated. He was able to maintain  them in a fairly compact group by his discovery of a short metal  direction rod on the breast of the suit, which gave horizontal  movement in the direction it was pointed when its button was pressed.    *       *       *       *       *    But though it seemed endless, the journey was not; Satellite III grew  and grew. Its pale circle spread outward; dark blurs took definition;  a spot of blue winked forth--the Great Briney Lake. The globe at last  became concave, then, after they entered its atmosphere, convex. This  last stretch was the most grueling.    Friday remembered it in vivid flashes. Time after time he dropped into  confused sleep, each time to be awakened by Carse jarring into him,  shouting at him through the suits' small radio sets, keeping him--and  Leithgow--attentive to the job of decelerating. The man's efforts must  have been terrific, taxing all his enormous driving power, for he at  that time was without doubt more exhausted than they. But he  succeeded, and he was a haggard-faced, feverish shell of himself when  at last he had them in a dangling drunken halt in the air a hundred  feet from the surface.    Primal savagery lay stretched out below, and there seemed to be no safe  spot whereon to land. The foul, deep swamp that reached for miles on  every side, the towering trees that sprouted their spiny trunks and  limbs from it, the interlaced razor-edged vines and creeper-growths--all  was a stirring welter of tropic life, life varied and voracious and  untamed. From the tiny poisonous bansi insects layers deep on the  nearest tree to the monster gantor that crouched in a clump of weeds,  gently sawing his fangs back and forth, all the creatures of this world  were against man.    Carse scanned the scene wearily. They had to land; had to sleep under 
missed one of the sleeping forms by inches. But the buru cared not for  them. It was not a flesh-eater. Its undulating neck stretched far out;  its head dipped; water was lapped up--until it caught sight of the  uprooted giant stump lying pitched in the pool. The beast drank but  little after that, and retreated as cautiously as it had come.    Five or six of its fellows of the swamps followed at intervals to the  water, grotesque hulking shapes, odorous and slimy with mud. All drank  from the same spot; all ignored, save for a tentative rooting snuffle,  the unconscious figures lying puny beneath them. But all noticed the  twisted roots of the stump, sticking out in a score of directions, and  avoided them.    And then there came smaller, more cautious animals who did not drink  from the favored spot, who surveyed it, sniffed, hesitated, and  finally retreated. There was a good reason for this caution.    For with the falling of night the stump had been at least thirty feet  out in the water; now it was not ten feet from the side of the spit,  and not twelve feet from the nearest sleeping figure. The suits that  clad the three figures were sealed, the face-plates closed, so there  was probably--after their trip through the void--no man smell to  attract the giants of swamp and trees. But those three figures had  moved. That was lure enough for one monster.    When the first ruddy arrows of Jupiter's light laced through the  jungle's highest foliage, the twisted, gnarled stump was settled on  the peninsula's rim, half out of the water. And when day burst, when  Jupiter's flaming arch pushed over into view, the long seeming-roots  eeled forward in sinuous reptilian life.    *       *       *       *       *    In one second Hawk Carse was snatched from sleep into the turmoil of a  fight for life.    Something hard and enormously powerful was wrapping his waist with a  vise-like grip that threatened to cut him in two. He felt a leg go up 
  "There's water here, but we must have food," he said. "Friday, you go  back and find fruit; some isuan weed, too, if it's growing nearby. A  chew of it will stimulate us. Keep your ray-gun ready. I wouldn't be  here if I'd not had mine."    The isuan was a big help. In its prepared form it is degrading,  mind-destroying, but in natural state it gives a powerful and  comparatively harmless stimulation. Chewing on the leaves that the  Negro brought back, they made strength and renewed vitality for their  bodies, and came, for the first time since they had started their  flight through space, to a near-normal state. Meaty, yellow globules  of pear-like fruit, followed by prudent drafts of water, aided also.  Friday's long-absent grin returned as he bit into the juicy fruit, and  he announced through a mouthful:    "Well, things're lookin' sunny again! We've got food and water inside  us; we can reach Master Leithgow's laboratory in these here suits; an'  to top it all we've finished high an' mighty Ku Sui. He's dead at  last! Boy, it sure feels good to know it!"    Eliot Leithgow was lying back, breathing deeply of the fresh morning  air. His lined, worn face and body were relaxed. "Yes," he murmured,  "it is good to know that Dr. Ku is now just a thing of the past. He  and his coordinated brains." He glanced aside at the Hawk, sitting  silent and still, and stroking, as always when in meditation, the  bangs of flaxen hair which obscured his forehead. "Why so serious,  Carse?" he asked.    *       *       *       *       *    The adventurer's gray eyes were cold and sober. No relaxation showed  in them. His hand paused in its slow smoothing movement and he spoke.    "Why I overlooked it before," he said quietly, almost as if to  himself, "I don't know. Probably because I was too tired, and too  busy, and too sick to think. But now I see."    
  "It would seem so," said Hawk Carse.    He amplified his evidence. "Look at these space-suits we're wearing.  We got them and escaped by them, but they're Dr. Ku's. Couldn't he  have protected himself with one too? He had plenty of time. And then  the construction of the asteroid's buildings--all metal, with tight,  sealed doors! Oh, stupid, stupid! Why didn't I see it all before?  Here, in my weakness and sickness, I thought we'd killed Ku Sui and  destroyed the coordinated brains!"    Leithgow looked suddenly very old and tired. The calamity did not end  there. There were other angles, and an immediate one of high danger.  In a lifeless voice he said:    "Carse, our whole situation's changed by this. We intended to go  straight to my laboratory, but we may not be able to. The laboratory  may already be closed to us. And even if not, there'd be a big risk in  going there."    "Closed to us by what?" the Hawk demanded sharply. "At risk from  what?"    Old Leithgow pressed his hands over his face. "Let me think a moment,"  he said.    *       *       *       *       *    There were very good reasons why Eliot Leithgow maintained his chief  laboratory on the dangerous Satellite III. Other planets might have  offered more friendly locations, but III possessed stores of  accessible minerals valuable to the scientist's varied work, and its  position in the solar system was most convenient, being roughly  halfway between Earth and the outermost frontiers. Leithgow had  counterbalanced the inherent peril of the laboratory's location by  ingenious camouflage, intricate defenses and hidden underground  entrances; had, indeed, hidden it so well that none of the scavengers  and brigands and more personal enemies who infested Port o' Porno  remotely suspected that his headquarters was on the satellite at all.  Ships, men, could pass over it a score of times with never an inkling  that it lay below.    After a short silence, Eliot Leithgow began his explanation. 
circumference of Satellite III. Why, he would at once deduce that it  gave the precise location of my laboratory!"    *       *       *       *       *    The Hawk rose quickly. "If those papers fell into Dr. Ku's hands--"    "He would know exactly where the laboratory is," Leithgow finished.  "He would search. Its camouflage would not hold him long. And that  would be the end of my laboratory--and us too, if we were caught  inside."    "Yes," snapped the Hawk. "You imply that the papers were left in  Kurgo's house?"    "I had them in the bottom drawer of the clothes-chest in the room I  always use. The coolies did not take them. At that time they wanted  nothing but me."    Friday, rubbing his woolly crown, interjected: "But, even if Ku Sui's  still alive, he wouldn't know about them papers. Far's _I_ can see,  they're safe."    "No!" Leithgow cried. "That's it! They're not! Follow it logically,  point by point. Assuming that Dr. Ku's alive, he has one point of  contact with us--Kurgo's house, in Porno, where I was kidnapped. He  wants us badly. He will anticipate that one of us will go back to that  house: to care for Kurgo's body, to get my belongings--for several  reasons. So he will radio down--he probably can't come himself--for  henchmen to station themselves at the house and to ransack it  thoroughly for anything pertaining to me. The papers would fall into  their hands!"    "All right," said Carse levelly. "We must get those papers. They will  either be still in the house or in the possession of Dr. Ku's men at  Porno. But whichever it is--_we must get them before Ku Sui does_." He  paused.    "Well," he said, "that means me." He turned and looked down at the old  man and smiled. "There's no use risking the three of us. I'll go to  Kurgo's house myself."    "If the papers are gone, suh?" asked Friday.   
face-plates. We must go up--far up--to get our bearings."    Altitude swept back the horizon as they arrowed up through the warm,  glowing air. From far in the heavens, perhaps twenty miles, Carse saw  what he looked for--a bright gleam of silver in the monochrome of the  terrain, where Jupiter's light struck on the smooth metal hides of a  group of space-ships resting in the satellite's lone port, Porno.  Eighty, a hundred miles away--some such distance. Into the helmet's  tiny microphone he said:    "That's Porno, over to the 'north,' and there to one side is the Great  Briney. It's not far: you won't have to hurry, Eliot. Head straight  for the lake and follow the near shoreline toward Porno, and you'll  come to Ban Wilson's ranch. Now we part."    The three clinging, giant forms separated. The direction-rods for  horizontal movement were out-hinged. A last touch of mitten-gloves on  the bloated suits fabric; a nod and a smile through the face-plates;  and a few parting words:    "Good luck, old comrade!"--in Leithgow's soft voice; and the Negro's  deep, emphatic bass: "Don't know how far these little sets work, suh,  but if you need me, call. I'll keep listenin'!"    And then white man and black were speeding away in the ruddy flood of  Jupiter-light, and Hawk Carse faced the danger trail alone, as was his  wont.    *       *       *       *       *    Caution rather than speed had to mark his journey, Carse knew. Several  ranches lay scattered in the jungle smother between him and the  port--stations where the weed isuan was collected and refined into the  deadly finished product. They were worked for the most part by  Venusians allied with Ku Sui: the Eurasian practically controlled the  drug trade; and therefore, if any alarm had been broadcast, many men  would already be on the lookout for him.    So the Hawk dropped low, and chose a course through the screening  walls of the jungle. It did not take him long to attain full mastery 
A last slice of blotched, flaming red, the rim of setting Jupiter,  still silhouetted Porno, sprawled inside its high, electric-wired  fences, and the flood of fading light brushed the town with beauty.  The rows of tin shacks which housed its dives, the clustered,  nondescript hovels, the merchants' grim strongholds of steel--all  merged into a glowing mirage, a scene far alien to the brooding swamp  and savage jungle in whose breast it lay. Here and there several  space-ships reared their sunset-gilded flanks, glittering high-lights  in the final glorious burst of Jupiter-light....    The planet's rim vanished abruptly, and Porno returned to true  character.    For a moment it appeared what it was: a blotched, disordered huddle,  ugly, raw, fit companion of the swamp and jungle. Then beads of light  appeared, some still, some winking, one crooked line of flaring  illumination marking the Street of the Sailors, along which the  notorious kantrans flourished, now ready for their nightly brood of  men who sought forgetfulness in revelry. Soon, Carse knew, the faint  man-noises he heard would grow into a broad fabric of sound, stitched  across by shrieks and roars as the isuan and alkite flowed free. And  all around the lone watcher in the sakari tree the night-monsters were  crawling out in jungle and swamp on the dark routine of their lives  as, in the town, two-legged creatures even lower in their degradation  went abroad after the dope and liquor which gave them their vicious  recreation.    The night flowed thicker around him.    *       *       *       *       *    From somewhere behind, the Hawk heard a suck of half-fluid mud as a  giant body stretched in its sleeping place. A tree close to his  suddenly fluttered with the unseen life it harbored. A hungry gantor  raised its long deep bellow to the night, and another answered, and  another.    It grew pitch black. Only a sprinkling of pin-points of light marked  Porno to the eye. The sky beyond the town matched the sky to the rear. 
  Silence. Inky nothingness--but the air was weighted with many things,  and among them one which brought the short hairs on the Hawk's neck  prickling erect. A smell! It was not to be mistaken--a faint, but rank  and fetid and altogether identifying smell--the body-smell of a  Venusian!    For a moment Hawk Carse's breathing stopped. Metal clanked on metal  for an instant as he moved from the window-port and became one with  the darkness inside; then silence again, as his eyes trained into the  vault and his hand held ready on the ray-gun. He waited.    Was it a trap? He had seen no guards watching the house; had sensed it  deserted. But the steep shutters, unlocked, readily permitting  entrance--and the smell! Even if not still there, a Venusian had been  in the room, and a Venusian of Port o' Porno was an enemy. A  Venusian.... There were only some sixty on the whole satellite, and,  of these, fifty were the men of Lar Tantril. Lar Tantril, powerful  henchman of Dr. Ku Sui, director of the Eurasian's drug trade on  Satellite III. But that line of thought had to wait.    "I see you!" he whispered suddenly and sharply. "My gun's on you. Come  forward!"    *       *       *       *       *    No answer; not the slightest sign or stir in the darkness. He breathed  again.    Carse knew the arrangement of Kurgo's house. He was in his  second-story sleeping-room. There was a door in the wall ahead,  leading into the room Leithgow was accustomed to use on his visits,  and there the papers should be. But first he would have to have light.    His ears pitched for any betraying sound, Carse moved heavily to his  left until a wall arrested him. He felt along it, located the desk he  sought for and scoured through it. His fingers found the flash he knew  was there.    The darkness then was slit by a hard straight line of white. It shot 
search for Leithgow's laboratory?    Or did it mean that Dr. Ku had merely radioed instructions for his  Venusian henchmen to ransack the house, take whatever pertained to  Leithgow, and wait for him?    Venusians.... There was only one logical man; and as Hawk Carse  thought of him in that dark and silent house of tragedy, his right  hand slowly rose to the bangs of hair over his forehead and began to  stroke them....    His bangs were an unusual style for the period; they stamped him and  attracted unwanted attention; but he would wear his hair in that  fashion until he went down in death. For he had once been  trapped--trapped neatly by five men, and maltreated: one, Judd the  Kite, whose life had paid already for his part in the ugly business;  two others whom he was not now concerned with; the fourth, Dr. Ku Sui;  and the fifth--a Venusian....    That fifth, the Venusian, was Lar Tantril, now one of Ku Sal's most  powerful henchmen, and director of his interplanetary drug  traffic--Lar Tantril, who possessed an impregnable isuan ranch only  twenty-five miles from Port o' Porno--_Lar Tantril, who probably had  directed the stealing of the papers from this room_! _The papers, if  not already in Ku Sui's hands_, _should be at Tantril's ranch_.    Carse's deduction was followed by a swift decision. He had to raid Lar  Tantril's ranch.    He knew the place fairly well. Once, even, he had attacked it, in his  _Star Devil_, seeking to wipe out his debt against Tantril; but he had  been driven off by the ranch's mighty offensive rays.    It was impregnable, Tantril was fond of boasting. Situated on the  brink of the Great Briney, its other three sides were flanked by  thick, swampy jungle, in which the isuan grew and was gathered by  Tantril's Venusian workers. Ranch? More a fort than a ranch, with its  electrified, steel-spiked fence; its three watch-towers, lookouts  always posted there against the threat of hijackers or enemies; its  powerful ray-batteries and miscellany of smaller weapons. A less  vulnerable place for the keeping of Eliot Leithgow's papers could  hardly have been found in all the frontiers of the solar system. 
nearest friend, whose ranch, fourteen miles from Tantril's stronghold,  was where Eliot Leithgow and Friday would be awaiting him.    It was characteristic of Hawk Carse that he never even considered  calling on Wilson's resources of men and weapons to help him. A Hawk  he was: wiry, fierce-clawed, bold against odds and danger, most  capable and deadly when striking alone....    *       *       *       *       *    After scanning the whole project, Carse attended to other needs. He  ate some of the akalot fruit spilled over the floor of the adjoining  room; opened a can of water and drank deeply; limbered his muscles  well; even rested for five minutes. Then he was ready to leave.    He soon was again in the cold space-suit, fastening on the helmet. He  left the face-plate open. The left mitten he hinged back, so as to be  able to grip the ray-gun in his bare hand. Then, a looming giant  shadow in the darkness, he shuffled to the rear window-port.    Carse steadied himself on the sill. The night-bedlam from the Street  of the Sailors, punctuated by far, hungry bellows from swamp monsters,  sounded in his ears. Enemies, human and animal, ringed him in Kurgo's  house: but up above lay a clean, cold highway, an open highway,  stretching straight to the heart of the danger which was his  destination. He turned the mitten-switch over to quick repulsion and  leaped up to the waiting heavens.    *       *       *       *       *    On the ground was a world of night: a mile up showed a great circle of  black, one edge of which was marked by a faint, eery glow from  further-setting Jupiter.    Save for that far-off spectral hint of the giant occulted planet, Hawk  Carse sped in darkness. Through the open face-plate the night wind  
  The watch-beacon began to wink more often through the ranks of  intervening trees as he neared the ranch. Carse was gliding so low  that often branches raked and twisted him in his course. His low  transit allowed one tree to loose great peril upon him.    The tree loomed a black giant in his path. Fifty feet away, he was  swerving to wind around it when he noticed its dark upper branches  a-tremble. He had only this for warning when, with chilling surprise,  what appeared to be the entire top of the tree rose, severed itself  completely from the rest and soared right out to meet him.    A shape from a nightmare, it slid over the adventurer. He saw two  green-glowing saucer-sized eyes; heard the wings rattling bonily as  they spread to full thirty feet; heard the monster's life-thirsty  scream is it plunged. The stars were blotted out. It was upon him.    *       *       *       *       *    But even in the sudden confusion of the attack, Carse knew the  creature for what it was: a full-grown specimen of the giant  carnivorous lemak, a seldom-seen, dying species, too clumsy, too slow,  too huge to survive. His ray-gun came around, but he was caught in a  feathered maelstrom and knocked too violently around to use it.  Without pause the lemak's claws raked his suit. Unable to rend the  tough fabric, it resorted to another method. With a strength so  enormous that it could overcome the force of the gravity-plates and  his forward momentum, the creature tossed him free. Dizzy, he hurtled  upward. But he knew that the bird's purpose was to impale him on the  long steely spike of its beak as he came twisting down.    The lemak poised below, snout and spear-like beak raised. But it  waited in vain, for Carse did not come dropping down. A touch of the  control switch and he stayed at the new level, collecting himself. The  lemak, puzzled and angry, wheeled up to see what had become of the 
suspicion. Lar Tantril had good reasons for maintaining a constant  watch over his stronghold, and his guards' eyes were sharpened by  knowledge of the severe payment laxness would bring. Close at hand in  the platforms were knobs which, pressed, would ring a clanging alarm  through all the buildings below; and each guard wore two ray-gun  holsters.    Despite the guards and the ugly spikes of the fence, however, the  ranch from above appeared peaceful, calm and harmless. No men were  visible on its shadow-dappled clearing. Even the surrounding jungle,  in the watch-beacon's shaded underside, might have been nothing but a  stage set, were it not for the occasional signs of the life that crept  unseen through it--a long, far-distant howl, a quickly receding  crashing in the undergrowth, a thumping from some small animal.    The guards were used to this pattern of nocturnal sounds. It was only  when, from a tree not thirty feet from one of the platforms, there  came a sudden sharp shaking in the upper branches, that the Venusian  on that platform deigned to grip his ray-gun and peer suspiciously.  All he saw was a large bird that flapped out and winged across the  clearing, mewing angrily.    The guard released his grip on the gun. A snake, probably, had  disturbed the bird. Or some of those devilish little crimson bansis,  half insect, half crab....    *       *       *       *       *    Hawk Carse breathed again. He had been sure his position would be  revealed when, drifting with almost imperceptible motion into the  tree, the bird had pecked at him, then flapped away in alarm. A long,  painfully cautious approach from tree to tree to the selected one had  been necessary to the daring scheme of attack he had evolved.    He seemed to be safe. Through a fringe of leaves he saw the guard on  the platform glancing elsewhere. Carse steadied himself, rose slightly  and again scanned the ranch.    Yes, it looked harmless, but he knew that nothing could be further 
all-deciding minutes, death would lick close to him.    He poised where he was precariously balanced. His ray-gun was in his  bare left hand; his face-plate was locked partly open. He raised his  fingers to the direction rod on the suit's breast, gazed straight at  the guard on the nearest watch-platform and snapped the direction rod  out, pointing it at that guard.    *       *       *       *       *    What happened then struck so fast, so unexpectedly, that it took only  thirty seconds to plunge the quiet ranch into chaos.    The Hawk came like a thunder-bolt, using to its full power his only  weapon, the space-suit. The sight of him might alone have been enough  to strike terror. From the dark arms of the tree he hurtled, his  bloated monstrous shape of metal and fabric dull in the glow of the  watch-beacon, and crashed with a clang of metal into the platform he  aimed at. Nothing there could withstand him. One second the guard on  it was calmly gazing off into the sky: the next, like a nine-pin he  was bowled over, to topple heels and head whirling to the ground sixty  feet beneath. He lived, he kept consciousness, but he was sorely  injured; and he never saw the outlandish projectile that struck him,  nor saw it streak to the second watch-platform, bowling its guard out  and to the ground likewise, and then repeating at the third and last!    A crash; a pause; a crash; a pause; then a third crash, and the thing  of metal had completed the circuit, and all three watch-platforms were  scooted empty!    Then came confusion.    There had been screams, but now a crazed voice began crying out  mechanically, over and over:    "Space-suit! Space-suit! Space-suit! Space-suit!"    It came from the second guard, who lay twisting on the ground. His  tongue, by some trick of nervous disorganization, beat out those words  like a voice-disk whose needle keeps skipping its groove--and the 
Even as Lar Tantril spoke, a giant shape was passing clumsily through  the kitchen of his house. Carse had entered from the rear, unseen.  With gun in hand and eyes sharp he crossed the deserted kitchen with  its foul odors of Venusian cookery. Quickly, his metal-shod feet  creating an unavoidable racket, he was through a connecting door and  into the well-furnished dining room. All was brightly lit; he could  easily have been seen through the window-ports rimming each wall; but  he counted on the confusion outside to keep the Venusians engaged for  several minutes more.    Then he went shuffling into the front room of the house, and saw at  once the most likely place.    It was in one corner--a large flat desk, and by it the broad panel of  a radio. Scattered over the desk were a number of papers. In seconds  Carse was bending over them, scanning and discarding with eyes and  hands.    Reports of various quantities of isuan ... orders for stores ... a  list that seemed an inventory of weapons--and then the top page of a  sheaf covered with familiar, neat, small writing. Yes!    Plans and calculations dealing with a laboratory! And, down in the  margin of the first page, the revealing, all-important figure--5,576.34!    He had them--and before Ku Sui! Now, only to get away; out the front  door, and up--up from this trap he was in--up into clean and empty  space, and then to Leithgow and Friday at Ban Wilson's!    But, as the Hawk turned to go, his eye took in a little slip on the  desk, a radio memo, with the name of Ku Sui at its top. Almost without  volition he glanced over it, hoping to discover useful information  about Ku Sui's asteroid--and with the passing of those few extra  seconds his chance for escaping out the door passed too.    Carse's back was partly toward the front door when a voice, hard and  deadly, spoke from it:    "Your hands up!"    *       *       *       *       * 
  "The gun in your belt," he said, "--drop it. Right on the floor.  There--better. I like you not with a gun near your hand, Carse."    The Hawk regarded him frigidly.    "And now what?" he asked.    Lar Tantril continued smiling. His ray-gun did not move for an instant  from the line it held on the metal and fabric giant. He said at a  tangent, quite pleasantly:    "Think fast, Captain Carse--think fast! Isn't that one of Dr. Ku's new  suits?--a little space-ship all your own? Why not plan a sudden sweep  for that door in an attempt to crash through my men and get free up in  the air--eh?"    "Why not?" said the Hawk.    "It might be possible," Tantril continued, "with your luck. _Unless  something went wrong with your helmet gravity-plates._"    At this the Venusian's gun moved. Deliberately it came up and aimed at  the crown of the adventurer's helmet. Tantril squeezed the trigger.    _Spang!_    A pencil-thin streak of orange stabbed between Venusian and Earthling;  sparks hissed out where it struck the tip of the helmet; and for an  instant life and strength seemed to leave the grotesquely clad figure.  Carse slumped down under a quick crushing weight. Weight! It bent him  low, and it was only with a great effort that he was able to  straighten again. For the suit's full load of metal and fabric was  upon him now, its enormous boots binding him to the ground since their  weight was unrelieved by the partial lift of the helmet plates. An  inch-wide, black-rimmed hole in the mechanism above the helmet told  what had happened.    Lar Tantril chortled, and his men, most of them only half  comprehending what he had done, echoed him.    "But even yet you've got a chance," the Venusian went on. "There's  another set of plates in the boot-soles, for attraction. If you got a  chance to stand on your head outside, you'd be gone! So--"    *       *       *       *       * 
"No," said the Hawk.    "You'll find it interesting. Let me read it to you." And Tantril took  up the memo.    "From Ku Sui to Lar Tantril: Search House No. 574 in Port o' Porno  closely for anything pertinent to Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow or  giving clue to his whereabouts. Keep what you obtain for me; I will  come to your ranch in five days. Watch for Hawk Carse, Eliot Leithgow  and a Negro, arriving from space at Satellite III in self-propulsive  space-suits." There followed some details concerning the suits'  mechanism; then: "Carse caused me certain trouble and came near  hurting my major inventions. I want him badly."    *       *       *       *       *    At this the adventurer's face tightened; his gray eyes went frosty.  All he and Leithgow had deduced, then, was true. Dr. Ku had survived  the crashing of the asteroid's dome. The mechanisms had also  survived--and certainly the coordinated brains--the brains he, Hawk  Carse, had promised to destroy! Now trapped, it seemed that promise  could never be fulfilled....    Yet even through this torturing thought of a promise unkept, the  Hawk's thumb and forefinger moved in their slight grinding motion on  the first sheet of the sheaf of papers....    Lar Tantril reached out his hand for the sheaf. "So, obeying Dr. Ku's  orders, I had the house searched and got these papers. They, must be  valuable, Carse, since you wanted them so badly. Ku Sui will be  pleased. Hand them over."    With but the barest flick of gray eyes downward. Hawk Carse gave the  sheaf to Tantril.    But his brief glance at the top-most sheet told him all he wanted to  know. Gradually, methodically, the motion of thumb and forefinger had  totally effaced the revealing figure 5,576.34, the one clue to the  location of Leithgow's laboratory. Enough! What he had set out to do  was finished. The chief task was achieved!    "And now, perhaps," Lar Tantril chuckled, "a little entertainment." 
well."    For a second the Venusian's assurance wavered.    "Vulnerable?" he said. "Open to attack? You're just stalling!"    Whip-like words cut through.    "Wait and see. Wait till the ranch is stormed and wiped out. Wait  twenty minutes! Only twenty!"    Hawk Carse was always listened to when he spoke in such manner. Lar  Tantril stared at the hard gray eyes boring into his.    "Why do you tell me this?" he asked. Then, with a smile: "Why not wait  until my ranch is wiped out, as you say?" His smile broadened. "Until  these hidden friends attack?"    "Simply because I must insure my living. Nothing my friends could do  would prevent your having plenty of time to kill me before you  yourselves were destroyed. I think, under the circumstances, you  _would_ kill me. And I must go free. I have made a promise. A very  important promise. I must be free to carry it out."    "Just what are you aiming at?"    "I'm offering," said the Hawk, "to show you where your fort is  vulnerable--in time for you to protect it. I'll do this if you'll let  me go free. _You need not release me till afterwards._"    *       *       *       *       *    Lar Tantril's mouth fell half open at this surprising turn. He was  unquestionably taken aback. But he snapped his lips shut and  considered the offer. A trick? Carse was famed for them. A trap? But  how? He scanned his men. Fifty to one; fifty ray-guns on an unarmed  man helpless in a hampering prison of metal and fabric. If a trap,  Carse could not possibly escape death. But yet....    Tantril walked over to his man Esret, and, stepping apart, they  conferred in whispers.    "Is he trying to trick us?" the chief asked.    "I don't see how he can hope to. He can hardly move in that suit. It  ties him down. We could keep tight guard upon him. He couldn't 
chains--but he was Hawk Carse! And so, as he shuffled out through the  front door of the house and lumbered with painful effort across the  clearing, he was surrounded by a glitter of ray-guns held by the  close-pressing circle of men. Tantril's own gun kept steady on his  broad fabric-clad back, and of its proximity he kept reminding Carse.    New guards were already on watch on each of the three  watch-platforms, their eyes sweeping around the clearing and the  jungle and the dark stretch of the lake, and often returning to the  crowd which marked the stumbling giant's progress below. Each point of  defense was manned. In the ranch's central control room, a  steel-sheathed cubby in the basement of Tantril's house, men stood  watchful, their hands ready at the wheels and levers which commanded  the ranch's ray-batteries, their eyes on the vision-screen which gave  to this unseen heart of the place a panoramic view of what was  transpiring above. And all waited on what the grotesque, bloated  figure they watched might reveal.    Watch--watch--watch. A hundred eyes, below, above, beside the Hawk,  were centered and alert on each move of his clumsy progress. The  barrels of two-score ray-guns transfixed him. Under such guard he  arrived at the ranch's fence where it approached the Great Briney.    "Open the gate," said the Hawk curtly. "It's down there."    He pointed to where the lake's pebbled beach shelved downward to the  tiny murmurous waves, a ten-foot stretch of ghostly white between the  guarding fence and the water.    "Down there?" repeated Tantril slowly. "Down to the lake?"    "Yes!" Carse snapped irritably. "Well, will you open the gate? I'm  very tired: I can't bear this suit much longer."    *       *       *       *       *    Lar Tantril conferred uneasily with Esret, while his men cast  shivering glances out over the dark wind-rippled plain of the lake.  But no enemy showed there. The beach was clear for fifty yards on each  side. 
has come in. A little farther...." He stopped suddenly and  straightened, turned to the Venusian chief. "Don't forget. Lar  Tantril, you have promised I can go free!"    Then he resumed his search of the bottom, the black surface of water  up to his waist. Again the fearful Venusian leader roared an  objection:    "You're tricking us. Carse, you little devil--"    "Oh, don't be an ass!" Carse snapped back. "As if I could get  away--your ray-guns on me!"    Another half minute passed; a few more short steps were taken. A  muttered oath came from one of the wet, uncomfortable men in the grip  of fear. Several there were on the brink of turning in, a panicky dash  for the safety of the enclosure behind, the warm buildings, guarded by  ray-batteries--and yet an awful fascination held them. What metallic  horror of the deeps was being exposed?    "Just a second, now," the Hawk was murmuring. "You'll all see....  Somewhere ... right ... here ... somewhere...."    He held them taut, expectant. The water licked around the waist of his  suit. One more slow step; one more yet.    "_Here!_" he cried triumphantly, and clicked his face-plate closed.  And the men who stared, faces pale, hearts pounding, ray-guns at the  ready, saw him no longer. The water had closed over that shiny metal  helmet. Only a mocking ripple was left.    Hawk Carse was gone!    *       *       *       *       *    Gone!--and laughing to himself.    The space-suit, his heavy prison of metal and fabric, would protect  him from water as well as from space! It offered his golden--his  only--opportunity. It had been pierced by Tantril's shots, back in the  house, but only the gravity-plate compartments, which were sealed and  separate. It was still--after he had closed the mittens--air-tight, an  effective little submarine in the dark waters of the Great Briney!    So Carse followed his black course over the lake-bottom laughing and  
