endless, musky-perfumed orchid gardens, small dark shapes with crooked  legs, hunched shoulders, slim hairless tails carried, like his, in  concentric spirals wound clockwise. Behind them sprang Honath on the end  of a long tether, timing his leaps by theirs, since any slip would hang  him summarily.    He would of course be on his way to the surface, some 250 feet below the  orchid gardens, shortly after dawn in any event. But not even the  arch-doubter of them all wanted to begin the trip--not even at the  merciful snap-spine end of a tether--a moment before the law said, Go.    The looping, interwoven network of vines beneath them, each cable as  thick through as a man's body, bellied out and down sharply as the  leapers reached the edge of the fern-tree forest which surrounded the  copse of fan-palms. The whole party stopped before beginning the descent  and looked eastward, across the dim bowl. The stars were paling more and  more rapidly; only the bright constellation of the Parrot could still be  picked out without doubt.    "A fine day," one of the guards said, conversationally. "Better to go  below on a sunny day than in the rain, pursemaker."    Honath shuddered and said nothing. Of course it was always raining down  below in Hell, that much could be seen by a child. Even on sunny days,  the endless pinpoint rain of transpiration, from the hundred million  leaves of the eternal trees, hazed the forest air and soaked the black  bog forever.    He looked around in the brightening, misty morning. The eastern horizon  was black against the limb of the great red sun, which had already risen  about a third of its diameter; it was almost time for the small,  blue-white, furiously hot consort to follow. All the way to that brink,  as to every other horizon, the woven ocean of the treetops flowed gently  in long, unbreaking waves, featureless as some smooth oil. Only nearby  could the eye break that ocean into its details, into the world as it  was: a great, many-tiered network, thickly overgrown with small ferns,  with air-drinking orchids, with a thousand varieties of fungi sprouting  wherever vine crossed vine and collected a little humus for them, with 
leaf-and-leather houses clustered thickly, bound to the vines  themselves, or hanging from an occasional branch too high or too slender  to bear the vines. Many of these purses Honath knew well, not only as  visitor but as artisan. The finest of them, the inverted flowers which  opened automatically as the morning dew bathed them, yet which could be  closed tightly and safely around their occupants at dusk by a single  draw-string, were his own design as well as his own handiwork. They had  been widely admired and imitated.    The reputation that they had given him, too, had helped to bring him to  the end of the snap-spine tether. They had given weight to his words  among others--weight enough to make him, at last, the arch-doubter, the  man who leads the young into blasphemy, the man who questions the Book  of Laws.    And they had probably helped to win him his passage on the Elevator to  Hell.    The purses were already opening as the party swung among them. Here and  there, sleepy faces blinked out from amid the exfoliating sections,  criss-crossed by relaxing lengths of dew-soaked rawhide. Some of the  awakening householders recognized Honath, of that he was sure, but none  came out to follow the party--though the villagers should be beginning  to drop from the hearts of their stitched flowers like ripe seed-pods by  this hour of any normal day.    A Judgment was at hand, and they knew it--and even those who had slept  the night in one of Honath's finest houses would not speak for him now.  Everyone knew, after all, that Honath did not believe in the Giants.    Honath could see the Judgment Seat itself now, a slung chair of woven  cane crowned along the back with a row of gigantic mottled orchids.  These had supposedly been transplanted there when the chair was made,  but no one could remember how old they were; since there were no  seasons, there was no particular reason why they should not have been  there forever. The Seat itself was at the back of the arena and high  above it, but in the gathering light Honath could make out the  white-furred face of the Tribal Spokesman, like a lone silver-and-black 
More captives were being brought in now, while the Spokesman watched  with glittering black eyes from his high perch. There was Mathild the  Forager, shivering as if with ague, the fur down her left side  glistening and spiky, as though she had inadvertently overturned a tank  plant on herself. After her was brought Alaskon the Navigator, a  middle-aged man only a few years younger than Honath himself; he was  tied up next to Honath, where he settled down at once, chewing at a  joint of cane with apparent indifference.    Thus far, the gathering had proceeded without more than a few words  being spoken, but that ended when the guards tried to bring Seth the  Needlesmith from the nets. He could be heard at once, over the entire  distance to the glade, alternately chattering and shrieking in a mixture  of tones that might mean either fear or fury. Everyone in the glade but  Alaskon turned to look, and heads emerged from purses like new  butterflies from cocoons.    A moment later, Seth's guards came over the lip of the glade in a  tangled group, now shouting themselves. Somewhere in the middle of the  knot Seth's voice became still louder; obviously he was clinging with  all five members to any vine or frond he could grasp, and was no sooner  pried loose from one than he would leap by main force, backwards if  possible, to another. Nevertheless he was being brought inexorably down  into the arena, two feet forward, one foot back, three feet forward....    Honath's guards resumed picking their pine-cones. During the  disturbance, Honath realized Charl the Reader had been brought in  quietly from the same side of the glade. He now sat opposite Alaskon,  looking apathetically down at the vine-web, his shoulders hunched  forward. He exuded despair; even to look at him made Honath feel a  renewed shudder.    From the High Seat, the Spokesman said: "Honath the Pursemaker, Alaskon  the Navigator, Charl the Reader, Seth the Needlesmith Mathild the  Forager, you are called to answer to justice."    "Justice!" Seth shouted, springing free of his captors with a tremendous  bound and bringing up with a jerk on the end of his tether. "This is no 
  "This doctrine is wind," the Spokesman said. "And it is plainly intended  to undercut authority and the order established by the Book. Tell me,  pursemaker: if men need not fear the Giants, why should they fear the  law?"    "Because they are men, and it is to their interest to fear the law. They  aren't children, who need some physical Giant sitting over them with a  whip to make them behave. Furthermore, Spokesman, this archaic belief  _itself_ undermines us. As long as we believe that there are real  Giants, and that some day they'll return and resume teaching us, so long  will we fail to seek answers to our questions for ourselves. Half of  what we know was given to us in the Book, and the other half is supposed  to drop to us from the skies if we wait long enough. In the meantime, we  vegetate."    "If a part of the Book be untrue, there can be nothing to prevent that  it is all untrue," the Spokesman said heavily. "And we will lose even  what you call the half of our knowledge--which is actually the whole of  it--to those who see with clear eyes."    Suddenly, Honath lost his temper. "Lose it, then!" he shouted. "Let us  unlearn everything we know only by rote, go back to the beginning, learn  all over again, and _continue_ to learn, from our own experience.  Spokesman, you are an old man, but there are still some of us who  haven't forgotten what curiosity means!"    "Quiet!" the Spokesman said. "We have heard enough. We call on Alaskon  the Navigator."    "Much of the Book is clearly untrue," Alaskon said flatly, rising. "As a  handbook of small trades it has served us well. As a guide to how the  universe is made, it is nonsense, in my opinion; Honath is too kind to  it. I've made no secret of what I think, and I still think it."    "And will pay for it," the Spokesman said, blinking slowly down at  Alaskon. "Charl the Reader."    "Nothing," Charl said, without standing, or even looking up.    "You do not deny the charges?"  
  "More lies!"    "Needles found in your house fit the furrows, Seth."    "They were not mine--or they were stolen! I demand to be freed!"    "You will be freed," the Spokesman said coldly. There was no possible  doubt as to what he meant. Seth began to weep and to shout at the same  time. Hands closed over his mouth again. "Mathild the Forager, your plea  may be heard."    The young woman stood up hesitantly. Her fur was nearly dry now, but she  was still shivering.    "Spokesman," she said, "I saw the things which Charl the Reader showed  me. I doubted, but what Honath said restored my belief. I see no harm in  his teachings. They remove doubt, instead of fostering it as you say  they do. I see no evil in them, and I don't understand why this is a  crime."    Honath looked over to her with new admiration. The Spokesman sighed  heavily.    "I am sorry for you," he said, "but as Spokesman we cannot allow  ignorance of the law as a plea. We will be merciful to you all, however.  Renounce your heresy, affirm your belief in the Book as it is written  from bark to bark, and you shall be no more than cast out of the tribe."    "I renounce it!" Seth cried. "I never shared it! It's all blasphemy and  every word is a lie! I believe in the Book, all of it!"    "You, needlesmith," the Spokesman said, "have lied before this Judgment,  and are probably lying now. You are not included in the dispensation."    "Snake-spotted caterpillar! May your--_ummulph_."    "Pursemaker, what is your answer?"    "It is No," Honath said stonily. "I've spoken the truth. The truth can't  be unsaid."    The Spokesman looked down at the rest of them. "As for you three,  consider your answers carefully. To share the heresy means sharing the  sentence. The penalty will not be lightened only because you did not  invent the heresy."    There was a long silence.    Honath swallowed hard. The courage and the faith in that silence made 
circle of faces, not too close to the gap in the vine web, peering down  after them. Then the basket fell another few yards to the next turn of  the windlass and the faces vanished.    Seth was weeping in the bottom of the Elevator, curled up into a tight  ball, the end of his tail wrapped around his nose and eyes. No one else  could make a sound, least of Honath.    The gloom closed around them. It seemed extraordinarily still. The  occasional harsh screams of a lizard-bird somehow distended the silence  without breaking it. The light that filtered down into the long aisles  between the trees seemed to be absorbed in a blue-green haze through  which the lianas wove their long curved lines. The columns of  tree-trunks, the pillars of the world, stood all around them, too  distant in the dim light to allow them to gauge their speed of descent.  Only the irregular plunges of the basket proved that it was even in  motion any longer, though it swayed laterally in a complex, overlapping  series of figure-eights.    Then the basket lurched downward once more, brought up short, and tipped  sidewise, tumbling them all against the hard cane. Mathild cried out in  a thin voice, and Seth uncurled almost instantly, clawing for a  handhold. Another lurch, and the Elevator lay down on its side and was  still.    They were in Hell.    Cautiously, Honath began to climb out, picking his way over the long  thorns on the basket's rim. After a moment, Charl the Reader followed,  and then Alaskon took Mathild firmly by the hand and led her out onto  the surface. The footing was wet and spongy, yet not at all resilient,  and it felt cold; Honath's toes curled involuntarily.    "Come on, Seth," Charl said in a hushed voice. "They won't haul it back  up until we're all out. You know that."    Alaskon looked around into the chilly mists. "Yes," he said. "And we'll  need a needlesmith down here. With good tools, there's just a chance--"    Seth's eyes had been darting back and forth from one to the other. With  a sudden chattering scream, he bounded out of the bottom of the basket, 
woods, down here where there aren't any leaves to help us tell them  apart."    Honath looked at the navigator curiously. Seth's bolt for the sky had  distracted him from the realization that the basket, too, was gone, but  now that desolate fact hit home. "You actually plan to stay alive in  Hell, don't you, Alaskon?"    "Certainly," Alaskon said calmly. "This is no more Hell than--up  there--is Heaven. It's the surface of the planet, no more, no less. We  can stay alive if we don't panic. Were you just going to sit here until  the furies came for you, Honath?"    "I hadn't thought much about it," Honath confessed. "But if there is any  chance that Seth will lose his grip on that rope--before he reaches the  top and they stab him--shouldn't we wait and see if we can catch him? He  can't weigh more than 35 pounds. Maybe we could contrive some sort of a  net--"    "He'd just break our bones along with his," Charl said. "I'm for getting  out of here as fast as possible."    "What for? Do you know a better place?"    "No, but whether this is Hell or not, there are demons down here. We've  all seen them from up above. They must know that the Elevator always  lands here and empties out free food. This must be a feeding-ground for  them--"    He had not quite finished speaking when the branches began to sigh and  toss, far above. A gust of stinging droplets poured along the blue air  and thunder rumbled. Mathild whimpered.    "It's only a squall coming up," Honath said. But the words came out in a  series of short croaks. As the wind had moved through the trees, Honath  had automatically flexed his knees and put his arms out for handholds,  awaiting the long wave of response to pass through the ground beneath  him. But nothing happened. The surface under his feet remained stolidly  where it was, flexing not a fraction of an inch in any direction. And  there was nothing nearby for his hands to grasp.    He staggered, trying to compensate for the failure of the ground to 
a sheer act of will. "I think Charl's right about this being a  feeding-ground, Alaskon. I hear something moving around in the ferns.  And if this rain lasts long, the water will rise here, too. I've seen  silver flashes from down here many a time after heavy rains."    "That's right," Mathild said, her voice subdued. "The base of the  fan-palm grove always floods. That's why the treetops are lower there."    The wind seemed to have let up a little, though the rain was still  falling. Alaskon stood up tentatively and looked around.    "Then let's move on," he said. "If we try to keep under cover until we  get to higher ground--"    A faint crackling sound, high above his head, interrupted him. It got  louder. Feeling a sudden spasm of pure fear, Honath looked up.    Nothing could be seen for an instant but the far-away curtain of  branches and fern fronds. Then, with shocking suddenness, something  plummeted through the blue-green roof and came tumbling toward them. It  was a man, twisting and tumbling through the air with grotesque  slowness, like a child turning in its sleep. They scattered.    The body hit the ground with a sodden thump, but there were sharp  overtones to the sound, like the bursting of a gourd. For a moment  nobody moved. Then Honath crept forward.    It had been Seth, as Honath had realized the moment the figurine had  burst through the branches far above. But it had not been the fall that  had killed him. He had been run through by at least a dozen  needles--some of them, beyond doubt, tools from his own shop, their  points edged hair-fine by his own precious strops of leatherwood-bark.    There would be no reprieve from above. The sentence was one thousand  days. This burst and broken huddle of fur was the only alternative.    And the first day had barely begun.    *       *       *       *       *    They toiled all the rest of the day to reach higher ground. As they 
long-jawed hunger stalking anything that flew--as they sometimes stalked  the birds of the attic world, and the flying fish along the breast of  the distant sea.    The party halted in an especially thick clump of sedges. Though the rain  continued to fall, harder than ever, they were all desperately thirsty.  They had yet to find a single bromelaid: evidently the tank-plants did  not grow in Hell. Cupping their hands to the weeping sky accumulated  surprisingly little water; and no puddles large enough to drink from  accumulated on the sand. But at least, here under the open sky, there  was too much fierce struggle in the air to allow the lizard-birds to  congregate and squall about their hiding place.    The white sun had already set and the red sun's vast arc still bulged  above the horizon. In the lurid glow the rain looked like blood, and the  seamed faces of the pink cliffs had all but vanished. Honath peered  dubiously out from under the sedges at the still distant escarpments.    "I don't see how we can hope to climb those," he said, in a low voice.  "That kind of limestone crumbles as soon as you touch it, otherwise we'd  have had better luck with our war against the cliff tribe."    "We could go around the cliffs," Charl said. "The foothills of the Great  Range aren't very steep. If we could last until we get to them, we could  go on up into the Range itself."    "To the volcanoes!" Mathild protested. "But nothing can live up there,  nothing but the white fire-things. And there are the lava-flows, too,  and the choking smoke--"    "Well, we can't climb these cliffs. Honath's quite right," Alaskon said.  "And we can't climb the Basalt Steppes, either--there's nothing to eat  along them, let alone any water or cover. I don't see what else we can  do but try to get up into the foothills."    "Can't we stay here?" Mathild said plaintively.    "No," Honath said, even more gently than he had intended. Mathild's four  words were, he knew, the most dangerous words in Hell--he knew it quite  surely, because of the imprisoned creature inside him that cried out to 
on up the slope which led toward the pink cliffs.    *       *       *       *       *    Late that afternoon, the three found the blue, turbulent stream flowing  out of the foothills of the Great Range. Not even Alaskon knew quite  what to make of it. It looked like water, but it flowed like the rivers  of lava that crept downward from the volcanoes. Whatever else it could  be, obviously it wasn't water; water stood, it never flowed. It was  possible to imagine a still body of water as big as this, but only in a  moment of fancy, an exaggeration derived from the known bodies of water  in the tank-plants. But this much water in motion? It suggested pythons;  it was probably poisonous. It did not occur to any of them to drink from  it. They were afraid even to touch it, let alone cross it, for it was  almost surely as hot as the other kinds of lava-rivers. They followed  its course cautiously into the foothills, their throats as dry and  gritty as the hollow stems of horsetails.    Except for the thirst--which was in an inverted sense their friend,  insofar as it overrode the hunger--the climbing was not difficult. It  was only circuitous, because of the need to stay under cover, to  reconnoiter every few yards, to choose the most sheltered course rather  than the most direct. By an unspoken consent, none of the three  mentioned Charl, but their eyes were constantly darting from side to  side, searching for a glimpse of the thing that had taken him.    That was perhaps the worst, the most terrifying part of the tragedy: not  once, since they had been in Hell, had they actually seen a demon--or  even any animal as large as a man. The enormous, three-taloned footprint  they had found in the sand beside their previous night's bed--the spot  where the thing had stood, looking down at the four sleepers from above,  coldly deciding which of them to seize--was the only evidence they had  
  "I can find my way. I'll follow the sound of the stream of blue lava or  whatever it is. You pull some fresh leaves for Alaskon and try to make  him comfortable. Better loosen those vines around the dressing a little.  I'll be back."    He touched her hand and pried it loose gently. Then, without stopping to  think about it any further, he slipped off the ledge and edged toward  the sound of the stream, travelling crabwise on all fours.    But he was swiftly lost. The night was thick and completely  impenetrable, and he found that the noise of the stream seemed to come  from all sides, providing him no guide at all. Furthermore, his memory  of the ridge which led up to the cave appeared to be faulty, for he  could feel it turning sharply to the right beneath him, though he  remembered distinctly that it had been straight past the first  side-branch, and then had gone to the left. Or had he passed the first  side-branch in the dark without seeing it? He probed the darkness  cautiously with one hand.    At the same instant, a brisk, staccato gust of wind came whirling up out  of the night across the ridge. Instinctively, Honath shifted his weight  to take up the flexing of the ground beneath him.    He realized his error instantly and tried to arrest the complex set of  motions, but a habit-pattern so deeply ingrained could not be frustrated  completely. Overwhelmed with vertigo, Honath grappled at the empty air  with hands, feet and tail and went toppling.    An instant later, with a familiar noise and an equally familiar cold  shock that seemed to reach throughout his body, he was sitting in the  midst of--    Water. Icy water. Water that rushed by him improbably with a menacing,  monkeylike chattering, but water all the same.    It was all he could do to repress a hoot of hysteria. He hunkered down  into the stream and soaked himself. Things nibbled delicately at his  calves as he bathed, but he had no reason to fear fish, small species of  which often showed up in the tanks of the bromelaids. After lowering his 
Alaskon chuckled. "Hell's not so bad, is it?" he said. Then he sighed,  and rushes creaked under him.    "Mathild! What's the matter? Is he--did he die?"    "No ... no. He's breathing. He's still sicker than he realizes, that's  all.... Honath--if they'd known, up above, how much courage you have--"    "I was scared white," Honath said grimly. "I'm still scared."    But her hand touched his again in the solid blackness, and after he had  taken it, he felt irrationally cheerful. With Alaskon breathing so  raggedly behind them, there was little chance that either of them would  be able to sleep that night; but they sat silently together on the hard  stone in a kind of temporary peace. When the mouth of the cave began to  outline itself with the first glow of the red sun, they looked at each  other in a conspiracy of light all their own.    _Let us unlearn everything we knew only by rote, go back to the  beginning, learn all over again, and continue to learn...._    With the first light of the white sun, a half-grown megatherium cub rose  slowly from its crouch at the mouth of the cave and stretched  luxuriously, showing a full set of saber-like teeth. It looked at them  steadily for a moment, its ears alert, then turned and loped away down  the slope.    How long it had been crouched there listening to them, it was impossible  to know. They had been lucky that they had stumbled into the lair of a  youngster. A full-grown animal would have killed them all, within a few  seconds after its cat's-eyes had collected enough dawn to identify them  positively. The cub, since it had no family of its own, evidently had  only been puzzled to find its den occupied and didn't want to quarrel  about it.    The departure of the big cat left Honath frozen, not so much frightened  as simply stunned by so unexpected an end to the vigil. At the first  moan from Alaskon, however, Mathild was up and walking softly to the  navigator, speaking in a low voice, sentences which made no particular  sense and perhaps were not intended to. Honath stirred and followed her. 
one's neighbors. But Honath had spoken up, and so had the rest of them,  in their fashions.    It was the ancient internal battle between what Honath wanted to do, and  what he knew he ought to do. He had never heard of Kant and the  Categorical Imperative, but he knew well enough which side of his nature  would win in the long run. But it had been a cruel joke of heredity  which had fastened a sense of duty onto a lazy nature. It made even  small decisions egregiously painful.    But for the moment at least, the decision was out of his hands. Alaskon  was too sick to be moved. In addition, the strong beams of sunlight  which had been glaring in across the floor of the cave were dimming by  the instant, and there was a distant, premonitory growl of thunder.    "Then we'll stay here," he said. "It's going to rain again, and hard  this time. Once it's falling in earnest, I can go out and pick us some  fruit--it'll screen me even if anything is prowling around in it. And I  won't have to go as far as the stream for water, as long as the rain  keeps up."    The rain, as it turned out, kept up all day, in a growing downpour which  completely curtained the mouth of the cave by early afternoon. The  chattering of the nearby stream grew quickly to a roar.    By evening, Alaskon's fever seemed to have dropped almost to normal, and  his strength nearly returned as well. The wound, thanks more to the  encrusted matte of mold than to any complications within the flesh  itself, was still ugly-looking, but it was now painful only when the  navigator moved carelessly, and Mathild was convinced that it was  mending. Alaskon himself, having been deprived of activity all day, was  unusually talkative.    "Has it occurred to either of you," he said in the gathering gloom,  "that since that stream is water, it can't possibly be coming from the  Great Range? All the peaks over there are just cones of ashes and lava.  We've seen young volcanoes in the process of building themselves, so 
Then it turned again, at right angles, and the three found themselves at  the exit of a dark gorge, little more than thirty feet high, but both  narrow and long. Here the stream was almost perfectly smooth, and the  thin strip of land on each side of it was covered with low shrubs. They  paused and looked dubiously into the canyon. It was singularly gloomy.    "There's plenty of cover, at least," Honath said in a low voice. "But  almost anything could live in a place like that."    "Nothing very big could hide in it," Alaskon pointed out. "It should be  safe. Anyhow it's the only way to go."    "All right. Let's go ahead, then. But keep your head down, and be ready  to jump!"    Honath lost the other two by sight as soon as they crept into the dark  shrubbery, but he could hear their cautious movements nearby. Nothing  else in the gorge seemed to move at all, not even the water, which  flowed without a ripple over an invisible bed. There was not even any  wind, for which Honath was grateful, although he had begun to develop an  immunity to the motionless ground beneath them.    After a few moments, Honath heard a low whistle. Creeping sidewise  toward the source of the sound, he nearly bumped into Alaskon, who was  crouched beneath a thickly-spreading magnolia. An instant later,  Mathilda's face peered out of the dim greenery.    "Look," Alaskon whispered. "What do you make of this?"    'This' was a hollow in the sandy soil, about four feet across and rimmed  with a low parapet of earth--evidently the same earth that had been  scooped out of its center. Occupying most of it were three grey,  ellipsoidal objects, smooth and featureless.    "Eggs," Mathild said wonderingly.    "Obviously. But look at the size of them! Whatever laid them must be  gigantic. I think we're trespassing in something's private valley."    Mathild drew in her breath. Honath thought fast, as much to prevent  panic in himself as in the girl. A sharp-edged stone lying nearby  provided the answer. He seized it and struck.    
too obviously true. The gorge evidently had begun life as a layer of  soft, partly soluble stone in the cliffs, tilted upright by some  volcanic upheaval, and then worn completely away by the rushing stream.  Both cliff faces were of the harder rock, and were sheer and as smooth  as if they had been polished by hand. Here and there a network of tough  vines had begun to climb them, but nowhere did such a network even come  close to reaching the top.    Honath turned and looked once more at the great arc of water and spray.  If there were only some way to prevent their being forced to retrace  their steps--    Abruptly, over the riot of the falls, there was a piercing, hissing  shriek. Echoes picked it up and sounded it again and again, all the way  up the battlements of the cliffs. Honath sprang straight up in the air  and came down trembling, facing away from the pool.    At first he could see nothing. Then, down at the open end of the turn,  there was a huge flurry of motion.    A second later, a two-legged, blue-green reptile half as tall as the  gorge itself came around the turn in a single bound and lunged violently  into the far wall of the valley. It stopped as if momentarily stunned,  and the great grinning head turned toward them a face of sinister and  furious idiocy.    [Illustration] [2]    The shriek set the air to boiling again. Balancing itself with its heavy  tail, the beast lowered its head and looked redly toward the falls.    The owner of the robbed nest had come home. They had met a demon of Hell  at last.    *       *       *       *       *    Honath's mind at that instant went as white and blank as the under-bark  of a poplar. He acted without thinking, without even knowing what he  did. When thought began to creep back into his head again, the three of 
between the basalt pillars in a smooth, almost solid-looking tube,  arching at least six feet before beginning to break into the fan of  spray and rainbows which poured down into the gorge. Once the chimney  had been climbed, it should be possible to climb out from under the  falls without passing through the water again.    And after that--?    Abruptly, Honath grinned. He felt weak all through with reaction, and  the face of the demon would probably be grinning in his dreams for a  long time to come. But at the same time he could not repress a surge of  irrational confidence. He gestured upward jauntily, shook himself, and  loped forward into the throat of the chimney.    Hardly more than an hour later they were all standing on a ledge  overlooking the gorge, with the waterfall creaming over the brink next  to them, only a few yards away. From here, it was evident that the gorge  itself was only the bottom of a far greater cleft, a split in the  pink-and-grey cliffs as sharp as though it had been riven in the rock by  a bolt of sheet lightning. Beyond the basalt pillars from which the fall  issued, however, the stream foamed over a long ladder of rock shelves  which seemed to lead straight up into the sky.    "That way?" Mathild said.    "Yes, and as fast as possible," Alaskon said, shading his eyes. "It must  be late. I don't think the light will last much longer."    "We'll have to go single file," Honath added. "And we'd better keep hold  of each other's hands. One slip on those wet steps and--it's a long way  down again."    Mathild shuddered and took Honath's hand convulsively. To his  astonishment, the next instant she was tugging him toward the basalt  pillars.    The irregular patch of deepening violet sky grew slowly as they climbed.  They paused often, clinging to the jagged escarpments until their breath  came back, and snatching icy water in cupped palms from the stream that  fell down the ladder beside them. There was no way to tell how far up  into the dusk the way had taken them, but Honath suspected that they 
This, then, was the end of the battle to do what was right, whatever the  odds. All the show of courage against superstition, all the black  battles against Hell itself, came down to this: _The Giants were real!_    They were unarguably real. Though they were twice as tall as men, stood  straighter, had broader shoulders, were heavier across the seat and had  no visible tails, their fellowship with men was clear. Even their  voices, as they shouted to each other around their towering metal  minnow, were the voices of men made into gods, voices as remote from  those of men as the voices of men were remote from those of monkeys, yet  just as clearly of the same family.    These were the Giants of the Book of Laws. They were not only real, but  they had come back to Tellura as they had promised to do.    And they would know what to do with unbelievers, and with fugitives from  Hell. It had all been for nothing--not only the physical struggle, but  the fight to be allowed to think for oneself as well. The gods existed,  literally, actually. This belief was the real hell from which Honath had  been trying to fight free all his life--but now it was no longer just a  belief. It was a fact, a fact that he was seeing with his own eyes.    The Giants had returned to judge their handiwork. And the first of the  people they would meet would be three outcasts, three condemned and  degraded criminals, three jail-breakers--the worst possible detritus of  the attic world.    All this went searing through Honath's mind in less than a second, but  nevertheless Alaskon's mind evidently had worked still faster. Always  the most outspoken unbeliever of the entire little group of rebels, the  one among them whose whole world was founded upon the existence of  rational explanations for everything, his was the point of view most  completely challenged by the sight before them now. With a deep, sharply  indrawn breath, he turned abruptly and walked away from them.    Mathild uttered a cry of protest, which she choked off in the middle;  but it was already too late. A round eye on the great silver minnow came 
Giant said. "Don't you still live in the vine-webs above the jungles?"    "Lord--"    "My name is Jarl Eleven. This man is Gerhardt Adler."    This seemed to stop Mathild completely. Honath could understand why. The  very notion of addressing Giants by name was nearly paralyzing. But  since they were already as good as cast down into Hell again, nothing  could be lost by it.    "Jarl Eleven," he said, "the people still live among the vines. The  floor of the jungle is forbidden. Only criminals are sent there. We are  criminals."    "Oh?" Jarl Eleven said. "And you've come all the way from the surface to  this mesa? Gerhardt, this is prodigious. You have no idea what the  surface of this planet is like--it's a place where evolution has never  managed to leave the tooth-and-nail stage. Dinosaurs from every period  of the Mesozoic, primitive mammals all the way up the scale to the  ancient cats the works. That's why the original seeding team put these  people in the treetops instead."    "Honath, what was your crime?" Gerhardt Adler said.    Honath was almost relieved to have the questioning come so quickly to  this point. Jarl Eleven's aside, with its many terms he could not  understand, had been frightening in its very meaninglessness.    "There were five of us," Honath said in a low voice. "We said we--that  we did not believe in the Giants."    There was a brief silence. Then, shockingly, both Jarl Eleven and  Gerhardt Adler burst into enormous laughter.    Mathild cowered, her hands over her ears. Even Honath flinched and took  a step backward. Instantly, the laughter stopped, and the Giant called  Jarl Eleven stepped into the oval of light and sat down beside them. In  the light, it could be seen that his face and hands were hairless,  although there was hair on his crown; the rest of his body was covered  by a kind of cloth. Seated, he was no taller than Honath, and did not  seem quite so fearsome.    "I beg your pardon," he said. "It was unkind of us to laugh, but what  you said was highly unexpected. Gerhardt, come over here and squat down, 
  "To make men? But only gods--"    "No, no. Be patient and listen," said Jarl Eleven. "We don't make men.  We make them suitable. There's a great deal of difference between the  two. We take the living germ plasm, the sperm and the egg, and we modify  it. When the modified man emerges, we help him to settle down in his new  world. That's what we did on Tellura--it happened long ago, before  Gerhardt and I were even born. Now we've come back to see how you people  are getting along, and to lend a hand if necessary."    He looked from Honath to Mathild, and back again. "Do you understand?"  he said.    "I'm trying." Honath said. "But you should go down to the jungle-top,  then. We're not like the others; they are the people you want to see."    "We shall, in the morning. We just landed here. But, just because you're  not like the others, we're more interested in you now. Tell me, has any  condemned man ever escaped from the jungle floor before you people?"    "No, never. That's not surprising. There are monsters down there."    Jarl Eleven looked sidewise at the other Giant. He seemed to be smiling.  "When you see the films," he remarked, "you'll call that the  understatement of the century. Honath, how did you three manage to  escape, then?"    Haltingly at first, and then with more confidence as the memories came  crowding vividly back, Honath told him. When he mentioned the feast at  the demon's nest, Jarl Eleven again looked significantly at Adler, but  he did not interrupt.    "And finally we got to the top of the chimney and came out on this flat  space," Honath said. "Alaskon was still with us then, but when he saw  you and the metal thing he threw himself back down the cleft. He was a  criminal like us, but he should not have died. He was a brave man, and a  wise one."    "Not wise enough to wait until all the evidence was in," Adler said  enigmatically. "All in all, Jarl, I'd say 'prodigious' is the word for  it. This is easily the most successful seeding job any team has ever 
case was ideological. That was the crucial turn in the criminal policy  of these people. A spirit of revolt is not quite enough, but couple it  with brains and--_ecce homo_!"    Honath's head was swimming. "But what does all this mean?" he said. "Are  we--not condemned to Hell any more?"    "No, you're still condemned, if you still want to call it that," Jarl  Eleven said soberly. "You've learned how to live down there, and you've  found out something even more valuable: how to stay alive while cutting  down your enemies. Do you know that you killed three demons with your  bare hands, you and Mathild and Alaskon?"    "Killed--"    "Certainly," Jarl Eleven said. "You ate three eggs. That is the  classical way, and indeed the only way, to wipe out monsters like the  dinosaurs. You can't kill the adults with anything short of an anti-tank  gun, but they're helpless in embryo--and the adults haven't the sense to  guard their nests."    Honath heard, but only distantly. Even his awareness of Mathild's warmth  next to him did not seem to help much.    "Then we have to go back down there," he said dully. "And this time  forever."    "Yes," Jarl Eleven said, his voice gentle. "But you wont be alone,  Honath. Beginning tomorrow, you'll have all your people with you."    "_All_ our people? But you're going to drive them out?"    "All of them. Oh, we won't prohibit the use of the vine-webs too, but  from now on your race will have to fight it out on the surface as well.  You and Mathild have proven that it can be done. It's high time the rest  of you learned, too."    "Jarl, you think too little of these young people themselves," Adler  said. "Tell them what is in store for them. They are frightened."    "Of course, of course. It's obvious. Honath, you and Mathild are the  only living individuals of your race who know how to survive down there  on the surface. And we're not going to tell your people how to do that.  We aren't even going to drop them so much as a hint. That part of it is 
