XXIII  Brother Men  XXIV  Lost Treasure  XXV  The Outpost of the World  XXVI  The Height of Civilization  XXVII  The Giant Again  XXVIII  Conclusion          Chapter I    Out to Sea      I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to  any other.  I may credit the seductive influence of an old vintage upon  the narrator for the beginning of it, and my own skeptical incredulity  during the days that followed for the balance of the strange tale.    When my convivial host discovered that he had told me so much, and that  I was prone to doubtfulness, his foolish pride assumed the task the old  vintage had commenced, and so he unearthed written evidence in the form  of musty manuscript, and dry official records of the British Colonial  Office to support many of the salient features of his remarkable  narrative.    I do not say the story is true, for I did not witness the happenings  which it portrays, but the fact that in the telling of it to you I have  taken fictitious names for the principal characters quite sufficiently  evidences the sincerity of my own belief that it MAY be true.    The yellow, mildewed pages of the diary of a man long dead, and the  records of the Colonial Office dovetail perfectly with the narrative of  my convivial host, and so I give you the story as I painstakingly  pieced it out from these several various agencies.    If you do not find it credible you will at least be as one with me in  acknowledging that it is unique, remarkable, and interesting.    From the records of the Colonial Office and from the dead man's diary  we learn that a certain young English nobleman, whom we shall call John  Clayton, Lord Greystoke, was commissioned to make a peculiarly delicate  investigation of conditions in a British West Coast African Colony from  whose simple native inhabitants another European power was known to be 
  About three o'clock in the afternoon they came about off a beautiful  wooded shore opposite the mouth of what appeared to be a land-locked  harbor.    Black Michael sent a small boat filled with men to sound the entrance  in an effort to determine if the Fuwalda could be safely worked through  the entrance.    In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the  passage as well as far into the little basin.    Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of  the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.    The surrounding shores were beautiful with semitropical verdure, while  in the distance the country rose from the ocean in hill and tableland,  almost uniformly clothed by primeval forest.    No signs of habitation were visible, but that the land might easily  support human life was evidenced by the abundant bird and animal life  of which the watchers on the Fuwalda's deck caught occasional glimpses,  as well as by the shimmer of a little river which emptied into the  harbor, insuring fresh water in plenitude.    As darkness settled upon the earth, Clayton and Lady Alice still stood  by the ship's rail in silent contemplation of their future abode.  From  the dark shadows of the mighty forest came the wild calls of savage  beasts--the deep roar of the lion, and, occasionally, the shrill scream  of a panther.    The woman shrank closer to the man in terror-stricken anticipation of  the horrors lying in wait for them in the awful blackness of the nights  to come, when they should be alone upon that wild and lonely shore.    Later in the evening Black Michael joined them long enough to instruct  them to make their preparations for landing on the morrow.  They tried  to persuade him to take them to some more hospitable coast near enough  to civilization so that they might hope to fall into friendly hands.  But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.    "I am the only man aboard who would not rather see ye both safely dead,  and, while I know that's the sensible way to make sure of our own 
    Chapter IV    The Apes      In the forest of the table-land a mile back from the ocean old Kerchak  the Ape was on a rampage of rage among his people.    The younger and lighter members of his tribe scampered to the higher  branches of the great trees to escape his wrath; risking their lives  upon branches that scarce supported their weight rather than face old  Kerchak in one of his fits of uncontrolled anger.    The other males scattered in all directions, but not before the  infuriated brute had felt the vertebra of one snap between his great,  foaming jaws.    A luckless young female slipped from an insecure hold upon a high  branch and came crashing to the ground almost at Kerchak's feet.    With a wild scream he was upon her, tearing a great piece from her side  with his mighty teeth, and striking her viciously upon her head and  shoulders with a broken tree limb until her skull was crushed to a  jelly.    And then he spied Kala, who, returning from a search for food with her  young babe, was ignorant of the state of the mighty male's temper until  suddenly the shrill warnings of her fellows caused her to scamper madly  for safety.    But Kerchak was close upon her, so close that he had almost grasped her  ankle had she not made a furious leap far into space from one tree to  another--a perilous chance which apes seldom if ever take, unless so  closely pursued by danger that there is no alternative.    She made the leap successfully, but as she grasped the limb of the  further tree the sudden jar loosened the hold of the tiny babe where it  clung frantically to her neck, and she saw the little thing hurled,  turning and twisting, to the ground thirty feet below.    With a low cry of dismay Kala rushed headlong to its side, thoughtless  now of the danger from Kerchak; but when she gathered the wee, mangled  form to her bosom life had left it.    With low moans, she sat cuddling the body to her; nor did Kerchak 
twenty-five miles along the seacoast and some fifty miles inland.  This  they traversed almost continually, occasionally remaining for months in  one locality; but as they moved through the trees with great speed they  often covered the territory in a very few days.    Much depended upon food supply, climatic conditions, and the prevalence  of animals of the more dangerous species; though Kerchak often led them  on long marches for no other reason than that he had tired of remaining  in the same place.    At night they slept where darkness overtook them, lying upon the  ground, and sometimes covering their heads, and more seldom their  bodies, with the great leaves of the elephant's ear.  Two or three  might lie cuddled in each other's arms for additional warmth if the  night were chill, and thus Tarzan had slept in Kala's arms nightly for  all these years.    That the huge, fierce brute loved this child of another race is beyond  question, and he, too, gave to the great, hairy beast all the affection  that would have belonged to his fair young mother had she lived.    When he was disobedient she cuffed him, it is true, but she was never  cruel to him, and was more often caressing him than chastising him.    Tublat, her mate, always hated Tarzan, and on several occasions had  come near ending his youthful career.    Tarzan on his part never lost an opportunity to show that he fully  reciprocated his foster father's sentiments, and whenever he could  safely annoy him or make faces at him or hurl insults upon him from the  safety of his mother's arms, or the slender branches of the higher  trees, he did so.    His superior intelligence and cunning permitted him to invent a  thousand diabolical tricks to add to the burdens of Tublat's life.    Early in his boyhood he had learned to form ropes by twisting and tying  long grasses together, and with these he was forever tripping Tublat or  attempting to hang him from some overhanging branch.    By constant playing and experimenting with these he learned to tie rude  knots, and make sliding nooses; and with these he and the younger apes 
Occasionally one more ferocious than his fellows would attempt this  latter alternative, but none had come yet who could wrest the palm of  victory from the fierce and brutal ape.    Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe.  They seemed to consider  him one of them and yet in some way different.  The older males either  ignored him entirely or else hated him so vindictively that but for his  wondrous agility and speed and the fierce protection of the huge Kala  he would have been dispatched at an early age.    Tublat was his most consistent enemy, but it was through Tublat that,  when he was about thirteen, the persecution of his enemies suddenly  ceased and he was left severely alone, except on the occasions when one  of them ran amuck in the throes of one of those strange, wild fits of  insane rage which attacks the males of many of the fiercer animals of  the jungle.  Then none was safe.    On the day that Tarzan established his right to respect, the tribe was  gathered about a small natural amphitheater which the jungle had left  free from its entangling vines and creepers in a hollow among some low  hills.    The open space was almost circular in shape.  Upon every hand rose the  mighty giants of the untouched forest, with the matted undergrowth  banked so closely between the huge trunks that the only opening into  the little, level arena was through the upper branches of the trees.    Here, safe from interruption, the tribe often gathered.  In the center  of the amphitheater was one of those strange earthen drums which the  anthropoids build for the queer rites the sounds of which men have  heard in the fastnesses of the jungle, but which none has ever  witnessed.    Many travelers have seen the drums of the great apes, and some have  heard the sounds of their beating and the noise of the wild, weird  revelry of these first lords of the jungle, but Tarzan, Lord Greystoke,  is, doubtless, the only human being who ever joined in the fierce, mad,  intoxicating revel of the Dum-Dum.    
alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched  mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the  human beasts beyond its frontier.    But as Tarzan of the Apes sat one day in the cabin of his father  delving into the mysteries of a new book, the ancient security of his  jungle was broken forever.    At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file,  over the brow of a low hill.    In advance were fifty black warriors armed with slender wooden spears  with ends hard baked over slow fires, and long bows and poisoned  arrows.  On their backs were oval shields, in their noses huge rings,  while from the kinky wool of their heads protruded tufts of gay  feathers.    Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and  on each breast three concentric circles.  Their yellow teeth were filed  to sharp points, and their great protruding lips added still further to  the low and bestial brutishness of their appearance.    Following them were several hundred women and children, the former  bearing upon their heads great burdens of cooking pots, household  utensils and ivory.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in  all respects to the advance guard.    That they more greatly feared an attack from the rear than whatever  unknown enemies lurked in their advance was evidenced by the formation  of the column; and such was the fact, for they were fleeing from the  white man's soldiers who had so harassed them for rubber and ivory that  they had turned upon their conquerors one day and massacred a white  officer and a small detachment of his black troops.    For many days they had gorged themselves on meat, but eventually a  stronger body of troops had come and fallen upon their village by night  to revenge the death of their comrades.    That night the black soldiers of the white man had had meat a-plenty,  and this little remnant of a once powerful tribe had slunk off into the  gloomy jungle toward the unknown, and freedom.    But that which meant freedom and the pursuit of happiness to these 
seething cauldron with a kick, and disappeared into the foliage above  just as the first of the returning natives entered the gate at the far  end of the village street.  Then he turned to watch the proceeding  below, poised like some wild bird ready to take swift wing at the first  sign of danger.    The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of  Kulonga.  Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird  lamentation.  On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very  one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.    Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing  out in wild, jabbering confusion.  The others hastened to gather about.  There was much excited gesticulating, pointing, and chattering; then  several of the warriors approached and peered within.    Finally an old fellow with many ornaments of metal about his arms and  legs, and a necklace of dried human hands depending upon his chest,  entered the hut.    It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.    For a few moments all was silent.  Then Mbonga emerged, a look of  mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance.  He spoke a few words to the assembled warriors, and in an instant the  men were flying through the little village searching minutely every hut  and corner within the palisades.    Scarcely had the search commenced than the overturned cauldron was  discovered, and with it the theft of the poisoned arrows.  Nothing more  they found, and it was a thoroughly awed and frightened group of  savages which huddled around their king a few moments later.    Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken  place.  The finding of the still warm body of Kulonga--on the very  verge of their fields and within easy earshot of the village--knifed  and stripped at the door of his father's home, was in itself  sufficiently mysterious, but these last awesome discoveries within the  village, within the dead Kulonga's own hut, filled their hearts with  dismay, and conjured in their poor brains only the most frightful of 
instinctively leave the district entirely, seldom if ever to return;  and thus it has always been with the great anthropoids.  They flee man  as man flees a pestilence.    For a short time the tribe of Tarzan lingered in the vicinity of the  beach because their new chief hated the thought of leaving the  treasured contents of the little cabin forever.  But when one day a  member of the tribe discovered the blacks in great numbers on the banks  of a little stream that had been their watering place for generations,  and in the act of clearing a space in the jungle and erecting many  huts, the apes would remain no longer; and so Tarzan led them inland  for many marches to a spot as yet undefiled by the foot of a human  being.    Once every moon Tarzan would go swinging rapidly back through the  swaying branches to have a day with his books, and to replenish his  supply of arrows.  This latter task was becoming more and more  difficult, for the blacks had taken to hiding their supply away at  night in granaries and living huts.    This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where  the arrows were being concealed.    Twice had he entered huts at night while the inmates lay sleeping upon  their mats, and stolen the arrows from the very sides of the warriors.  But this method he realized to be too fraught with danger, and so he  commenced picking up solitary hunters with his long, deadly noose,  stripping them of weapons and ornaments and dropping their bodies from  a high tree into the village street during the still watches of the  night.    These various escapades again so terrorized the blacks that, had it not  been for the monthly respite between Tarzan's visits, in which they had  opportunity to renew hope that each fresh incursion would prove the  last, they soon would have abandoned their new village.    The blacks had not as yet come upon Tarzan's cabin on the distant  beach, but the ape-man lived in constant dread that, while he was away  with the tribe, they would discover and despoil his treasure.  So it 
This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood.  Then gathering up his precious tin box, his arrows, and as many bows  and spears as he could carry, he hastened through the door and  disappeared into the forest.    When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange  assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.    Some twenty souls in all there were, fifteen of them rough and  villainous appearing seamen.    The others of the party were of different stamp.    One was an elderly man, with white hair and large rimmed spectacles.  His slightly stooped shoulders were draped in an ill-fitting, though  immaculate, frock coat, and a shiny silk hat added to the incongruity  of his garb in an African jungle.    The second member of the party to land was a tall young man in white  ducks, while directly behind came another elderly man with a very high  forehead and a fussy, excitable manner.    After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors.  Her  great eyes rolled in evident terror, first toward the jungle and then  toward the cursing band of sailors who were removing the bales and  boxes from the boats.    The last member of the party to disembark was a girl of about nineteen,  and it was the young man who stood at the boat's prow to lift her high  and dry upon land.  She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks,  but no words passed between them.    In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.  It was evident that  whatever their intentions, all had been decided upon before they left  the ship; and so they came to the door, the sailors carrying the boxes  and bales, followed by the five who were of so different a class.  The  men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice  which Tarzan had posted.    "Ho, mates!" he cried.  "What's here?  This sign was not posted an hour  ago or I'll eat the cook."    The others gathered about, craning their necks over the shoulders of 
and then silence.    In the cabin by the beach two thoroughly terrified women clung to each  other as they crouched upon the low bench in the gathering darkness.    The Negress sobbed hysterically, bemoaning the evil day that had  witnessed her departure from her dear Maryland, while the white girl,  dry eyed and outwardly calm, was torn by inward fears and forebodings.  She feared not more for herself than for the three men whom she knew to  be wandering in the abysmal depths of the savage jungle, from which she  now heard issuing the almost incessant shrieks and roars, barkings and  growlings of its terrifying and fearsome denizens as they sought their  prey.    And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side  of the cabin.  She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground  outside.  For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the  forest died to a faint murmur.  Then she distinctly heard the beast  outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched.  Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.    "Hush!" she whispered.  "Hush, Esmeralda," for the woman's sobs and  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just  beyond the thin wall.    A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  The brute tried to  force an entrance; but presently this ceased, and again she heard the  great pads creeping stealthily around the cabin.  Again they  stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now  glued themselves.    "God!" she murmured, for now, silhouetted against the moonlit sky  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the  head of a huge lioness.  The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in  intent ferocity.    "Look, Esmeralda!" she whispered.  "For God's sake, what shall we do?  Look!  Quick!  The window!"    Esmeralda, cowering still closer to her mistress, took one frightened  glance toward the little square of moonlight, just as the lioness  emitted a low, savage snarl.    
darkness until it found his old friend's shoulder.    "Forgive me, Skinny," he said, softly.  "It hasn't been quite twenty  years, and God alone knows how hard I have tried to be 'human' for  Jane's sake, and yours, too, since He took my other Jane away."    Another old hand stole up from Mr. Philander's side to clasp the one  that lay upon his shoulder, and no other message could better have  translated the one heart to the other.    They did not speak for some minutes.  The lion below them paced  nervously back and forth.  The third figure in the tree was hidden by  the dense shadows near the stem.  He, too, was silent--motionless as a  graven image.    "You certainly pulled me up into this tree just in time," said the  professor at last.  "I want to thank you.  You saved my life."    "But I didn't pull you up here, Professor," said Mr. Philander.  "Bless  me!  The excitement of the moment quite caused me to forget that I  myself was drawn up here by some outside agency--there must be someone  or something in this tree with us."    "Eh?" ejaculated Professor Porter.  "Are you quite positive, Mr.  Philander?"    "Most positive, Professor," replied Mr. Philander, "and," he added, "I  think we should thank the party.  He may be sitting right next to you  now, Professor."    "Eh?  What's that?  Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut!" said Professor  Porter, edging cautiously nearer to Mr. Philander.    Just then it occurred to Tarzan of the Apes that Numa had loitered  beneath the tree for a sufficient length of time, so he raised his  young head toward the heavens, and there rang out upon the terrified  ears of the two old men the awful warning challenge of the anthropoid.    The two friends, huddled trembling in their precarious position on the  limb, saw the great lion halt in his restless pacing as the  blood-curdling cry smote his ears, and then slink quickly into the  jungle, to be instantly lost to view.    "Even the lion trembles in fear," whispered Mr. Philander. 
  Then he continued digging until he had unearthed the chest.  This also  he dragged to the side of the corpse.  Then he filled in the smaller  hole below the grave, replaced the body and the earth around and above  it, covered it over with underbrush, and returned to the chest.    Four sailors had sweated beneath the burden of its weight--Tarzan of  the Apes picked it up as though it had been an empty packing case, and  with the spade slung to his back by a piece of rope, carried it off  into the densest part of the jungle.    He could not well negotiate the trees with his awkward burden, but he  kept to the trails, and so made fairly good time.    For several hours he traveled a little north of east until he came to  an impenetrable wall of matted and tangled vegetation.  Then he took to  the lower branches, and in another fifteen minutes he emerged into the  amphitheater of the apes, where they met in council, or to celebrate  the rites of the Dum-Dum.    Near the center of the clearing, and not far from the drum, or altar,  he commenced to dig.  This was harder work than turning up the freshly  excavated earth at the grave, but Tarzan of the Apes was persevering  and so he kept at his labor until he was rewarded by seeing a hole  sufficiently deep to receive the chest and effectually hide it from  view.    Why had he gone to all this labor without knowing the value of the  contents of the chest?    Tarzan of the Apes had a man's figure and a man's brain, but he was an  ape by training and environment.  His brain told him that the chest  contained something valuable, or the men would not have hidden it.  His  training had taught him to imitate whatever was new and unusual, and  now the natural curiosity, which is as common to men as to apes,  prompted him to open the chest and examine its contents.    But the heavy lock and massive iron bands baffled both his cunning and  
  He had been too preoccupied with his own scholarly thoughts in the past  to consider the little occurrences, the chance words, which would have  indicated to a more practical man that these young people were being  drawn more and more closely to one another.  Now they came back to him,  one by one.    "As you wish," he said.    "You may count on me, also," said Mr. Philander.    "No, my dear old friend," said Professor Porter.  "We may not all go.  It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone, and  three of us would be no more successful than one.    "There be enough dead things in the cruel forest as it is.  Come--let  us try to sleep a little."          Chapter XIX    The Call of the Primitive      From the time Tarzan left the tribe of great anthropoids in which he  had been raised, it was torn by continual strife and discord.  Terkoz  proved a cruel and capricious king, so that, one by one, many of the  older and weaker apes, upon whom he was particularly prone to vent his  brutish nature, took their families and sought the quiet and safety of  the far interior.    But at last those who remained were driven to desperation by the  continued truculence of Terkoz, and it so happened that one of them  recalled the parting admonition of Tarzan:    "If you have a chief who is cruel, do not do as the other apes do, and  attempt, any one of you, to pit yourself against him alone.  But,  instead, let two or three or four of you attack him together.  Then, if  you will do this, no chief will dare to be other than he should be, for  four of you can kill any chief who may ever be over you."    And the ape who recalled this wise counsel repeated it to several of  his fellows, so that when Terkoz returned to the tribe that day he  found a warm reception awaiting him.    There were no formalities.  As Terkoz reached the group, five huge, 
  The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting.  The myriad noises of  the jungle seemed far distant and hushed to a mere echo of blurred  sounds, rising and falling like the surf upon a remote shore.    A feeling of dreamy peacefulness stole over Jane as she sank down upon  the grass where Tarzan had placed her, and as she looked up at his  great figure towering above her, there was added a strange sense of  perfect security.    As she watched him from beneath half-closed lids, Tarzan crossed the  little circular clearing toward the trees upon the further side.  She  noted the graceful majesty of his carriage, the perfect symmetry of his  magnificent figure and the poise of his well-shaped head upon his broad  shoulders.    What a perfect creature!  There could be naught of cruelty or baseness  beneath that godlike exterior.  Never, she thought had such a man  strode the earth since God created the first in his own image.    With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.  Jane  wondered where he had gone.  Had he left her there to her fate in the  lonely jungle?    She glanced nervously about.  Every vine and bush seemed but the  lurking-place of some huge and horrible beast waiting to bury gleaming  fangs into her soft flesh.  Every sound she magnified into the stealthy  creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.    How different now that he had left her!    For a few minutes that seemed hours to the frightened girl, she sat  with tense nerves waiting for the spring of the crouching thing that  was to end her misery of apprehension.    She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her  unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.    She heard a sudden, slight sound behind her.  With a cry she sprang to  her feet and turned to face her end.    There stood Tarzan, his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit.    Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden,  caught her in his arms.  She did not lose consciousness, but she clung 
Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was  bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been  released.    A number of the women scattered to their several huts to fetch pots and  water, while others built a row of fires on which portions of the feast  were to be boiled while the balance would be slowly dried in strips for  future use, as they expected the other warriors to return with many  prisoners.  The festivities were delayed awaiting the return of the  warriors who had remained to engage in the skirmish with the white men,  so that it was quite late when all were in the village, and the dance  of death commenced to circle around the doomed officer.    Half fainting from pain and exhaustion, D'Arnot watched from beneath  half-closed lids what seemed but the vagary of delirium, or some horrid  nightmare from which he must soon awake.    The bestial faces, daubed with color--the huge mouths and flabby  hanging lips--the yellow teeth, sharp filed--the rolling, demon  eyes--the shining naked bodies--the cruel spears.  Surely no such  creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.    The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.  Now a spear sprang forth  and touched his arm.  The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling  blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position.    Another spear and then another touched him.  He closed his eyes and  held his teeth firm set--he would not cry out.    He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an  officer and a gentleman died.      Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of  those distant shots.  With Jane Porter's kisses still warm upon his  lips he was swinging with incredible rapidity through the forest trees  straight toward the village of Mbonga.    He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged  that that would soon be over.  Those who were killed he could not aid,  those who escaped would not need his assistance.  
"You make me so irritable, sleeping there peacefully when you know  perfectly well that the world is filled with sorrow."    "Gaberelle!" screamed Esmeralda, sitting up.  "What is it now?  A  hipponocerous?  Where is he, Miss Jane?"    "Nonsense, Esmeralda, there is nothing.  Go back to sleep.  You are bad  enough asleep, but you are infinitely worse awake."    "Yes honey, but what's the matter with you, precious?  You acts sort of  disgranulated this evening."    "Oh, Esmeralda, I'm just plain ugly to-night," said the girl.  "Don't  pay any attention to me--that's a dear."    "Yes, honey; now you go right to sleep.  Your nerves are all on edge.  What with all these ripotamuses and man eating geniuses that Mister  Philander been telling about--Lord, it ain't no wonder we all get  nervous prosecution."    Jane crossed the little room, laughing, and kissing the faithful woman,  bid Esmeralda good night.          Chapter XXIII    Brother Men.      When D'Arnot regained consciousness, he found himself lying upon a bed  of soft ferns and grasses beneath a little "A" shaped shelter of boughs.    At his feet an opening looked out upon a green sward, and at a little  distance beyond was the dense wall of jungle and forest.    He was very lame and sore and weak, and as full consciousness returned  he felt the sharp torture of many cruel wounds and the dull aching of  every bone and muscle in his body as a result of the hideous beating he  had received.    Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he  lay still with closed eyes for a long time.    He tried to piece out the details of his adventure prior to the time he  lost consciousness to see if they would explain his present  whereabouts--he wondered if he were among friends or foes.    At length he recollected the whole hideous scene at the stake, and  finally recalled the strange white figure in whose arms he had sunk  into oblivion.  
trained athletes and 'strong men' as they surpass a day-old babe; and  his courage and ferocity in battle are those of the wild beast."    "He has certainly won a loyal champion, Miss Porter," said Captain  Dufranne, laughing.  "I am sure that there be none of us here but would  willingly face death a hundred times in its most terrifying forms to  deserve the tributes of one even half so loyal--or so beautiful."    "You would not wonder that I defend him," said the girl, "could you  have seen him as I saw him, battling in my behalf with that huge hairy  brute.    "Could you have seen him charge the monster as a bull might charge a  grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have  believed him more than human.    "Could you have seen those mighty muscles knotting under the brown  skin--could you have seen them force back those awful fangs--you too  would have thought him invincible.    "And could you have seen the chivalrous treatment which he accorded a  strange girl of a strange race, you would feel the same absolute  confidence in him that I feel."    "You have won your suit, my fair pleader," cried the captain.  "This  court finds the defendant not guilty, and the cruiser shall wait a few  days longer that he may have an opportunity to come and thank the  divine Portia."    "For the Lord's sake honey," cried Esmeralda.  "You all don't mean to  tell ME that you're going to stay right here in this here land of  carnivable animals when you all got the opportunity to escapade on that  boat?  Don't you tell me THAT, honey."    "Why, Esmeralda!  You should be ashamed of yourself," cried Jane.  "Is  this any way to show your gratitude to the man who saved your life  twice?"    "Well, Miss Jane, that's all jest as you say; but that there forest man  never did save us to stay here.  He done save us so we all could get  AWAY from here.  I expect he be mighty peevish when he find we ain't  got no more sense than to stay right here after he done give us the 
  D'Arnot glanced at the title page.    "It is the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, an English nobleman,  and it is written in French," he said.    Then he proceeded to read the diary that had been written over twenty  years before, and which recorded the details of the story which we  already know--the story of adventure, hardships and sorrow of John  Clayton and his wife Alice, from the day they left England until an  hour before he was struck down by Kerchak.    D'Arnot read aloud.  At times his voice broke, and he was forced to  stop reading for the pitiful hopelessness that spoke between the lines.    Occasionally he glanced at Tarzan; but the ape-man sat upon his  haunches, like a carven image, his eyes fixed upon the ground.    Only when the little babe was mentioned did the tone of the diary alter  from the habitual note of despair which had crept into it by degrees  after the first two months upon the shore.    Then the passages were tinged with a subdued happiness that was even  sadder than the rest.    One entry showed an almost hopeful spirit.    To-day our little boy is six months old.  He is sitting in Alice's lap  beside the table where I am writing--a happy, healthy, perfect child.    Somehow, even against all reason, I seem to see him a grown man, taking  his father's place in the world--the second John Clayton--and bringing  added honors to the house of Greystoke.    There--as though to give my prophecy the weight of his endorsement--he  has grabbed my pen in his chubby fists and with his inkbegrimed little  fingers has placed the seal of his tiny finger prints upon the page.      And there, on the margin of the page, were the partially blurred  imprints of four wee fingers and the outer half of the thumb.    When D'Arnot had finished the diary the two men sat in silence for some  minutes.    "Well!  Tarzan of the Apes, what think you?" asked D'Arnot.  "Does not  this little book clear up the mystery of your parentage? 
  "Are these imprints similar to mine or Monsieur Tarzan's or can you say  that they are identical with either?" The officer drew a powerful glass  from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making  notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.    Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police  officer.    The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.    With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he  relaxed and dropped back, smiling.    D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.    "You forget that for twenty years the dead body of the child who made  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  I have seen it lying there," said Tarzan bitterly.    The policeman looked up in astonishment.    "Go ahead, captain, with your examination," said D'Arnot, "we will tell  you the story later--provided Monsieur Tarzan is agreeable."    Tarzan nodded his head.    "But you are mad, my dear D'Arnot," he insisted.  "Those little fingers  are buried on the west coast of Africa."    "I do not know as to that, Tarzan," replied D'Arnot.  "It is possible,  but if you are not the son of John Clayton then how in heaven's name  did you come into that God forsaken jungle where no white man other  than John Clayton had ever set foot?"    "You forget--Kala," said Tarzan.    "I do not even consider her," replied D'Arnot.    The friends had walked to the broad window overlooking the boulevard as  they talked.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy  throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.    "It takes some time to compare finger prints," thought D'Arnot, turning  to look at the police officer.    To his astonishment he saw the official leaning back in his chair  hastily scanning the contents of the little black diary.    D'Arnot coughed.  The policeman looked up, and, catching his eye,  raised his finger to admonish silence.  D'Arnot turned back to the 
  "But in Baltimore--Oh, how I have searched for you--they told me you  would possibly be married by now.  That a man named Canler had come up  here to wed you.  Is that true?"    "Yes."    "Do you love him?"    "No."    "Do you love me?"    She buried her face in her hands.    "I am promised to another.  I cannot answer you, Tarzan of the Apes,"  she cried.    "You have answered.  Now, tell me why you would marry one you do not  love."    "My father owes him money."    Suddenly there came back to Tarzan the memory of the letter he had  read--and the name Robert Canler and the hinted trouble which he had  been unable to understand then.    He smiled.    "If your father had not lost the treasure you would not feel forced to  keep your promise to this man Canler?"    "I could ask him to release me."    "And if he refused?"    "I have given my promise."    He was silent for a moment.  The car was plunging along the uneven road  at a reckless pace, for the fire showed threateningly at their right,  and another change of the wind might sweep it on with raging fury  across this one avenue of escape.    Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.    "Suppose I should ask him?" ventured Tarzan.    "He would scarcely accede to the demand of a stranger," said the girl.  "Especially one who wanted me himself."    "Terkoz did," said Tarzan, grimly.    Jane shuddered and looked fearfully up at the giant figure beside her,  for she knew that he meant the great anthropoid he had killed in her  defense.    "This is not the African jungle," she said.  "You are no longer a  savage beast.  You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold  blood."    "I am still a wild beast at heart," he said, in a low voice, as though 
