XXIII  Taken Alive  XXIV  The Messenger of Death  XXV  Home  Glossary            1    The Pithecanthropus    Silent as the shadows through which he moved, the great beast slunk  through the midnight jungle, his yellow-green eyes round and staring,  his sinewy tail undulating behind him, his head lowered and flattened,  and every muscle vibrant to the thrill of the hunt. The jungle moon  dappled an occasional clearing which the great cat was always careful  to avoid. Though he moved through thick verdure across a carpet of  innumerable twigs, broken branches, and leaves, his passing gave forth  no sound that might have been apprehended by dull human ears.    Apparently less cautious was the hunted thing moving even as silently  as the lion a hundred paces ahead of the tawny carnivore, for instead  of skirting the moon-splashed natural clearings it passed directly  across them, and by the tortuous record of its spoor it might indeed be  guessed that it sought these avenues of least resistance, as well it  might, since, unlike its grim stalker, it walked erect upon two  feet--it walked upon two feet and was hairless except for a black  thatch upon its head; its arms were well shaped and muscular; its hands  powerful and slender with long tapering fingers and thumbs reaching  almost to the first joint of the index fingers. Its legs too were  shapely but its feet departed from the standards of all races of men,  except possibly a few of the lowest races, in that the great toes  protruded at right angles from the foot.    Pausing momentarily in the full light of the gorgeous African moon the  creature turned an attentive ear to the rear and then, his head lifted,  his features might readily have been discerned in the moonlight. They  were strong, clean cut, and regular--features that would have attracted  attention for their masculine beauty in any of the great capitals of  the world. But was this thing a man? It would have been hard for a  watcher in the trees to have decided as the lion's prey resumed its way 
  Drawing his knife Tarzan moved slowly toward the body of his companion,  expecting that his recent antagonist would grasp the opportunity for  escape. To his surprise, however, the beast, after regaining its club,  advanced at his side.    The great cat, flattened upon its belly, remained motionless except for  twitching tail and snarling lips where it lay perhaps fifty feet beyond  the body of the pithecanthropus. As Tarzan stepped over the body of the  latter he saw the eyelids quiver and open, and in his heart he felt a  strange sense of relief that the creature was not dead and a  realization that without his suspecting it there had arisen within his  savage bosom a bond of attachment for this strange new friend.    Tarzan continued to approach the saber-tooth, nor did the shaggy beast  at his right lag behind. Closer and closer they came until at a  distance of about twenty feet the hybrid charged. Its rush was directed  toward the shaggy manlike ape who halted in his tracks with upraised  bludgeon to meet the assault. Tarzan, on the contrary, leaped forward  and with a celerity second not even to that of the swift-moving cat, he  threw himself headlong upon him as might a Rugby tackler on an American  gridiron. His right arm circled the beast's neck in front of the right  shoulder, his left behind the left foreleg, and so great was the force  of the impact that the two rolled over and over several times upon the  ground, the cat screaming and clawing to liberate itself that it might  turn upon its attacker, the man clinging desperately to his hold.    Seemingly the attack was one of mad, senseless ferocity unguided by  either reason or skill. Nothing, however, could have been farther from  the truth than such an assumption since every muscle in the ape-man's  giant frame obeyed the dictates of the cunning mind that long  experience had trained to meet every exigency of such an encounter. The  long, powerful legs, though seemingly inextricably entangled with the  hind feet of the clawing cat, ever as by a miracle, escaped the raking  talons and yet at just the proper instant in the midst of all the 
  "It was for this that you sent away my father and my brothers to spy  upon the Kor-ul-lul? I will not have you. Leave the cave of my  ancestors!"    Es-sat smiled. It was the smile of a strong and wicked man who knows  his power--not a pleasant smile at all. "I will leave, Pan-at-lee," he  said; "but you shall go with me--to the cave of Es-sat, the chief, to  be the envied of the shes of Kor-ul-JA.  Come!"    "Never!" cried Pan-at-lee. "I hate you. Sooner would I mate with a  Ho-don than with you, beater of women, murderer of babes."    A frightful scowl distorted the features of the chief. "She-JATO!" he  cried. "I will tame you! I will break you! Es-sat, the chief, takes  what he will and who dares question his right, or combat his least  purpose, will first serve that purpose and then be broken as I break  this," and he picked a stone platter from the table and broke it in his  powerful hands. "You might have been first and most favored in the cave  of the ancestors of Es-sat; but now shall you be last and least and  when I am done with you you shall belong to all of the men of Es-sat's  cave. Thus for those who spurn the love of their chief!"    He advanced quickly to seize her and as he laid a rough hand upon her  she struck him heavily upon the side of his head with her golden  breastplates. Without a sound Es-sat, the chief, sank to the floor of  the apartment. For a moment Pan-at-lee bent over him, her improvised  weapon raised to strike again should he show signs of returning  consciousness, her glossy breasts rising and falling with her quickened  breathing. Suddenly she stooped and removed Es-sat's knife with its  scabbard and shoulder belt.  Slipping it over her own shoulder she  quickly adjusted her breastplates and keeping a watchful glance upon  the figure of the fallen chief, backed from the room.    In a niche in the outer room, just beside the doorway leading to the  balcony, were neatly piled a number of rounded pegs from eighteen to 
know which of all the holes you see are deep enough for pegs--the  others are made to confuse our enemies and are too shallow to hold a  peg."    At the top of the cliff beside the gnarled tree Tarzan again took up  the trail. Here the scent was fully as strong as upon the pegs and the  ape-man moved rapidly across the ridge in the direction of the  Kor-ul-lul.    Presently he paused and turned toward Om-at. "Here she moved swiftly,  running at top speed, and, Om-at, she was pursued by a lion."    "You can read that in the grass?" asked O-dan as the others gathered  about the ape-man.    Tarzan nodded. "I do not think the lion got her," he added; "but that  we shall determine quickly. No, he did not get her--look!" and he  pointed toward the southwest, down the ridge.    Following the direction indicated by his finger, the others presently  detected a movement in some bushes a couple of hundred yards away.    "What is it?" asked Om-at. "It is she?" and he started toward the spot.    "Wait," advised Tarzan. "It is the lion which pursued her."    "You can see him?" asked Ta-den.    "No, I can smell him."    The others looked their astonishment and incredulity; but of the fact  that it was indeed a lion they were not left long in doubt. Presently  the bushes parted and the creature stepped out in full view, facing  them. It was a magnificent beast, large and beautifully maned, with the  brilliant leopard spots of its kind well marked and symmetrical. For a  moment it eyed them and then, still chafing at the loss of its prey  earlier in the morning, it charged.    The Pal-ul-donians unslung their clubs and stood waiting the onrushing  beast. Tarzan of the Apes drew his hunting knife and crouched in the  path of the fanged fury. It was almost upon him when it swerved to the  right and leaped for Om-at only to be sent to earth with a staggering  blow upon the head. Almost instantly it was up and though the men  rushed fearlessly in, it managed to sweep aside their weapons with its 
cut off. The thumbs upon his hands and feet are unlike those of the  races of Pal-ul-don. He is more powerful than many men put together and  he attacks with the fearlessness of JA.  We brought him alive, that you  might see him before he is slain."    The chief rose and approached the ape-man, who closed his eyes and  feigned unconsciousness. He felt hairy hands upon him as he was turned  over, none too gently. The gund examined him from head to foot, making  comments, especially upon the shape and size of his thumbs and great  toes.    "With these and with no tail," he said, "it cannot climb."    "No," agreed one of the warriors, "it would surely fall even from the  cliff pegs."    "I have never seen a thing like it," said the chief. "It is neither  Waz-don nor Ho-don. I wonder from whence it came and what it is called."    "The Kor-ul-JA shouted aloud, 'Tarzan-jad-guru!' and we thought that  they might be calling this one," said a warrior. "Shall we kill it now?"    "No," replied the chief, "we will wait until its life returns into its  head that I may question it. Remain here, In-tan, and watch it. When it  can again hear and speak call me."    He turned and departed from the cave, the others, except In-tan,  following him. As they moved past him and out of the chamber Tarzan  caught snatches of their conversation which indicated that the  Kor-ul-JA reinforcements had fallen upon their little party in great  numbers and driven them away. Evidently the swift feet of Id-an had  saved the day for the warriors of Om-at. The ape-man smiled, then he  partially opened an eye and cast it upon In-tan. The warrior stood at  the entrance to the cave looking out--his back was toward his prisoner.  Tarzan tested the bonds that secured his wrists. They seemed none too  stout and they had tied his hands in front of him! Evidence indeed that  the Waz-don took few prisoners--if any.    Cautiously he raised his wrists until he could examine the thongs that  confined them. A grim smile lighted his features. Instantly he was at 
then, would but have been to invite disaster and so she did not call.  Instead, afraid though she was, she descended into the gorge for the  purpose of overhauling Tarzan and warning him in whispers of his  danger. It was a brave act, since it was performed in the face of  countless ages of inherited fear of the creatures that she might be  called upon to face. Men have been decorated for less.    Pan-at-lee, descended from a long line of hunters, assumed that Tarzan  would move up wind and in this direction she sought his tracks, which  she soon found well marked, since he had made no effort to conceal  them. She moved rapidly until she reached the point at which Tarzan had  taken to the trees. Of course she knew what had happened; since her own  people were semi-arboreal; but she could not track him through the  trees, having no such well-developed sense of scent as he.    She could but hope that he had continued on up wind and in this  direction she moved, her heart pounding in terror against her ribs, her  eyes glancing first in one direction and then another.  She had reached  the edge of a clearing when two things happened--she caught sight of  Tarzan bending over a dead deer and at the same instant a deafening  roar sounded almost beside her.  It terrified her beyond description,  but it brought no paralysis of fear. Instead it galvanized her into  instant action with the result that Pan-at-lee swarmed up the nearest  tree to the very loftiest branch that would sustain her weight. Then  she looked down.    The thing that Tarzan saw charging him when the warning bellow  attracted his surprised eyes loomed terrifically monstrous before  him--monstrous and awe-inspiring; but it did not terrify Tarzan, it  only angered him, for he saw that it was beyond even his powers to  combat and that meant that it might cause him to lose his kill, and  Tarzan was hungry. There was but a single alternative to remaining for  annihilation and that was flight--swift and immediate. And Tarzan fled,  but he carried the carcass of Bara, the deer, with him. He had not more 
upon her from every side and then, drawing her knife she turned at bay,  metamorphosed by the fires of fear and hate from a startled deer to a  raging tiger-cat. They did not try to kill her, but only to subdue and  capture her; and so it was that more than a single Ho-don warrior felt  the keen edge of her blade in his flesh before they had succeeded in  overpowering her by numbers. And still she fought and scratched and bit  after they had taken the knife from her until it was necessary to tie  her hands and fasten a piece of wood between her teeth by means of  thongs passed behind her head.    At first she refused to walk when they started off in the direction of  the valley but after two of them had seized her by the hair and dragged  her for a number of yards she thought better of her original decision  and came along with them, though still as defiant as her bound wrists  and gagged mouth would permit.    Near the entrance to Kor-ul-lul they came upon another body of their  warriors with which were several Waz-don prisoners from the tribe of  Kor-ul-lul. It was a raiding party come up from a Ho-don city of the  valley after slaves. This Pan-at-lee knew for the occurrence was by no  means unusual. During her lifetime the tribe to which she belonged had  been sufficiently fortunate, or powerful, to withstand successfully the  majority of such raids made upon them, but yet Pan-at-lee had known of  friends and relatives who had been carried into slavery by the Ho-don  and she knew, too, another thing which gave her hope, as doubtless it  did to each of the other captives--that occasionally the prisoners  escaped from the cities of the hairless whites.    After they had joined the other party the entire band set forth into  the valley and presently, from the conversation of her captors,  Pan-at-lee knew that she was headed for A-lur, the City of Light; while  in the cave of his ancestors, Om-at, chief of the Kor-ul-JA, bemoaned  the loss of both his friend and she that was to have been his mate.  
a moment all eyes were centered upon Tarzan and then gradually they  drifted to Ko-tan, for from his attitude would they receive the cue  that would determine theirs. But Ko-tan was evidently in the same  quandary as they--the very attitude of his body indicated it--it was  one of indecision and of doubt.    The ape-man stood erect, his arms folded upon his broad breast, an  expression of haughty disdain upon his handsome face; but to Dak-lot  there seemed to be indications also of growing anger. The situation was  becoming strained. Dak-lot fidgeted, casting apprehensive glances at  Tarzan and appealing ones at Ko-tan. The silence of the tomb wrapped  the great chamber of the throneroom of Pal-ul-don.    At last Ko-tan spoke. "Who says that he is Dor-ul-Otho?" he asked,  casting a terrible look at Dak-lot.    "He does!" almost shouted that terrified noble.    "And so it must be true?" queried Ko-tan.    Could it be that there was a trace of irony in the chief's tone? Otho  forbid! Dak-lot cast a side glance at Tarzan--a glance that he intended  should carry the assurance of his own faith; but that succeeded only in  impressing the ape-man with the other's pitiable terror.    "O Ko-tan!" pleaded Dak-lot, "your own eyes must convince you that  indeed he is the son of Otho. Behold his godlike figure, his hands, and  his feet, that are not as ours, and that he is entirely tailless as is  his mighty father."    Ko-tan appeared to be perceiving these facts for the first time and  there was an indication that his skepticism was faltering. At that  moment a young warrior who had pushed his way forward from the opposite  side of the pyramid to where he could obtain a good look at Tarzan  raised his voice.    "Ko-tan," he cried, "it must be even as Dak-lot says, for I am sure now  that I have seen Dor-ul-Otho before. Yesterday as we were returning  with the Kor-ul-lul prisoners we beheld him seated upon the back of a  great GRYF. We hid in the woods before he came too near, but I saw  enough to make sure that he who rode upon the great beast was none 
haltingly she groped for a way to extricate herself from her dilemma.  "I thought--" she faltered, "but no, I am mistaken--I thought that he  was one whom I had seen before near the Kor-ul-GRYF."    The Ho-don looked first at one and then at the other an expression of  doubt and questioning in her eyes. "But you have not answered me," she  continued presently; "who are you?"    "You have not heard then," asked Tarzan, "of the visitor who arrived at  your king's court yesterday?"    "You mean," she exclaimed, "that you are the Dor-ul-Otho?" And now the  erstwhile doubting eyes reflected naught but awe.    "I am he," replied Tarzan; "and you?"    "I am O-lo-a, daughter of Ko-tan, the king," she replied.    So this was O-lo-a, for love of whom Ta-den had chosen exile rather  than priesthood. Tarzan had approached more closely the dainty  barbarian princess. "Daughter of Ko-tan," he said, "Jad-ben-Otho is  pleased with you and as a mark of his favor he has preserved for you  through many dangers him whom you love."    "I do not understand," replied the girl but the flush that mounted to  her cheek belied her words. "Bu-lat is a guest in the palace of Ko-tan,  my father. I do not know that he has faced any danger. It is to Bu-lat  that I am betrothed."    "But it is not Bu-lat whom you love," said Tarzan.    Again the flush and the girl half turned her face away. "Have I then  displeased the Great God?" she asked.    "No," replied Tarzan; "as I told you he is well satisfied and for your  sake he has saved Ta-den for you."    "Jad-ben-Otho knows all," whispered the girl, "and his son shares his  great knowledge."    "No," Tarzan hastened to correct her lest a reputation for omniscience  might prove embarrassing. "I know only what Jad-ben-Otho wishes me to  know."    "But tell me," she said, "I shall be reunited with Ta-den?  Surely the  son of god can read the future."    The ape-man was glad that he had left himself an avenue of escape. "I 
his arms outstretched in the attitude of one who bares his breast to  the dagger of an executioner. The warriors and the priests and the  slaves gathered in the sacred court awaited the consuming vengeance of  their god.    It was Tarzan who broke the silence. "Your god ignores you Lu-don," he  taunted, with a sneer that he meant to still further anger the high  priest, "he ignores you and I can prove it before the eyes of your  priests and your people."    "Prove it, blasphemer! How can you prove it?"    "You have called me a blasphemer," replied Tarzan, "you have proved to  your own satisfaction that I am an impostor, that I, an ordinary  mortal, have posed as the son of god. Demand then that Jad-ben-Otho  uphold his godship and the dignity of his priesthood by directing his  consuming fires through my own bosom."    Again there ensued a brief silence while the onlookers waited for  Lu-don to thus consummate the destruction of this presumptuous impostor.    "You dare not," taunted Tarzan, "for you know that I would be struck  dead no quicker than were you."    "You lie," cried Lu-don, "and I would do it had I not but just received  a message from Jad-ben-Otho directing that your fate be different."    A chorus of admiring and reverential "Ahs" arose from the priesthood.  Ko-tan and his warriors were in a state of mental confusion. Secretly  they hated and feared Lu-don, but so ingrained was their sense of  reverence for the office of the high priest that none dared raise a  voice against him.    None? Well, there was Ja-don, fearless old Lion-man of the north. "The  proposition was a fair one," he cried. "Invoke the lightnings of  Jad-ben-Otho upon this man if you would ever convince us of his guilt."    "Enough of this," snapped Lu-don. "Since when was Ja-don created high  priest? Seize the prisoner," he cried to the priests and warriors, "and  on the morrow he shall die in the manner that Jad-ben-Otho has willed."    There was no immediate movement on the part of any of the warriors to  obey the high priest's command, but the lesser priests on the other 
The Masquerader    As Tarzan dropped to the ground beyond the temple wall there was in his  mind no intention to escape from the City of A-lur until he had  satisfied himself that his mate was not a prisoner there, but how, in  this strange city in which every man's hand must be now against him, he  was to live and prosecute his search was far from clear to him.    There was only one place of which he knew that he might find even  temporary sanctuary and that was the Forbidden Garden of the king.  There was thick shrubbery in which a man might hide, and water and  fruits. A cunning jungle creature, if he could reach the spot  unsuspected, might remain concealed there for a considerable time, but  how he was to traverse the distance between the temple grounds and the  garden unseen was a question the seriousness of which he fully  appreciated.    "Mighty is Tarzan," he soliloquized, "in his native jungle, but in the  cities of man he is little better than they."    Depending upon his keen observation and sense of location he felt safe  in assuming that he could reach the palace grounds by means of the  subterranean corridors and chambers of the temple through which he had  been conducted the day before, nor any slightest detail of which had  escaped his keen eyes. That would be better, he reasoned, than crossing  the open grounds above where his pursuers would naturally immediately  follow him from the temple and quickly discover him.    And so a dozen paces from the temple wall he disappeared from sight of  any chance observer above, down one of the stone stairways that led to  the apartments beneath. The way that he had been conducted the previous  day had followed the windings and turnings of numerous corridors and  apartments, but Tarzan, sure of himself in such matters, retraced the  route accurately without hesitation.    He had little fear of immediate apprehension here since he believed  that all the priests of the temple had assembled in the court above to  witness his trial and his humiliation and his death, and with this idea  
them clattering to the floor of the apartment within.    Instantly Tarzan dove headforemost through the aperture carrying the  hangings of antelope hide with him to the floor below.  Leaping to his  feet he tore the entangling pelt from about his head only to find  himself in utter darkness and in silence. He called aloud a name that  had not passed his lips for many weary months. "Jane, Jane," he cried,  "where are you?" But there was only silence in reply.    Again and again he called, groping with outstretched hands through the  Stygian blackness of the room, his nostrils assailed and his brain  tantalized by the delicate effluvia that had first assured him that his  mate had been within this very room. And he had heard her dear voice  combatting the base demands of the vile priest. Ah, if he had but acted  with greater caution! If he had but continued to move with quiet and  stealth he might even at this moment be holding her in his arms while  the body of Lu-don, beneath his foot, spoke eloquently of vengeance  achieved. But there was no time now for idle self-reproaches.    He stumbled blindly forward, groping for he knew not what till suddenly  the floor beneath him tilted and he shot downward into a darkness even  more utter than that above. He felt his body strike a smooth surface  and he realized that he was hurtling downward as through a polished  chute while from above there came the mocking tones of a taunting laugh  and the voice of Lu-don screamed after him: "Return to thy father, O  Dor-ul-Otho!"    The ape-man came to a sudden and painful stop upon a rocky floor.  Directly before him was an oval window crossed by many bars, and beyond  he saw the moonlight playing on the waters of the blue lake below.  Simultaneously he was conscious of a familiar odor in the air of the  chamber, which a quick glance revealed in the semidarkness as of  considerable proportion.    It was the faint, but unmistakable odor of the GRYF, and now Tarzan  stood silently listening. At first he detected no sounds other than  those of the city that came to him through the window overlooking the 
  A brief silence followed the assassin's cowardly act. White with  terror, now, Bu-lot fell slowly back toward the doorway at his rear,  when suddenly angry warriors leaped with drawn knives to prevent his  escape and to avenge their king. But Mo-sar now took his stand beside  his son.    "Ko-tan is dead!" he cried. "Mo-sar is king! Let the loyal warriors of  Pal-ul-don protect their ruler!"    Mo-sar commanded a goodly following and these quickly surrounded him  and Bu-lot, but there were many knives against them and now Ja-don  pressed forward through those who confronted the pretender.    "Take them both!" he shouted. "The warriors of Pal-ul-don will choose  their own king after the assassin of Ko-tan has paid the penalty of his  treachery."    Directed now by a leader whom they both respected and admired those who  had been loyal to Ko-tan rushed forward upon the faction that had  surrounded Mo-sar. Fierce and terrible was the fighting, devoid,  apparently, of all else than the ferocious lust to kill and while it  was at its height Mo-sar and Bu-lot slipped unnoticed from the banquet  hall.    To that part of the palace assigned to them during their visit to A-lur  they hastened. Here were their servants and the lesser warriors of  their party who had not been bidden to the feast of Ko-tan. These were  directed quickly to gather together their belongings for immediate  departure. When all was ready, and it did not take long, since the  warriors of Pal-ul-don require but little impedimenta on the march,  they moved toward the palace gate.    Suddenly Mo-sar approached his son. "The princess," he whispered. "We  must not leave the city without her--she is half the battle for the  throne."    Bu-lot, now entirely sober, demurred. He had had enough of fighting and  of risk. "Let us get out of A-lur quickly," he urged, "or we shall have  the whole city upon us. She would not come without a struggle and that  would delay us too long."    "There is plenty of time," insisted Mo-sar. "They are still fighting in  the pal-e-don-so. It will be long before they miss us and, with Ko-tan 
  "You spoke the truth, stranger," said the chief who marched at Tarzan's  side, "for there are the warriors with the priests among them, even as  you told us."    "And now," replied the ape-man, "that I have fulfilled my promise I  will go my way after Mo-sar, who has done me a great wrong.  Tell  Ja-don that Jad-ben-Otho is upon his side, nor do you forget to tell  him also that it was the Dor-ul-Otho who thwarted Lu-don's plan to  seize the palace."    "I will not forget," replied the chief. "Go your way. We are enough to  overpower the traitors."    "Tell me," asked Tarzan, "how I may know this city of Tu-lur?"    "It lies upon the south shore of the second lake below A-lur," replied  the chief, "the lake that is called Jad-in-lul."    They were now approaching the band of traitors, who evidently thought  that this was another contingent of their own party since they made no  effort either toward defense or retreat. Suddenly the chief raised his  voice in a savage war cry that was immediately taken up by his  followers, and simultaneously, as though the cry were a command, the  entire party broke into a mad charge upon the surprised rebels.    Satisfied with the outcome of his suddenly conceived plan and sure that  it would work to the disadvantage of Lu-don, Tarzan turned into a side  street and pointed his steps toward the outskirts of the city in search  of the trail that led southward toward Tu-lur.        17    By Jad-bal-lul    As Mo-sar carried Jane Clayton from the palace of Ko-tan, the king, the  woman struggled incessantly to regain her freedom. He tried to compel  her to walk, but despite his threats and his abuse she would not  voluntarily take a single step in the direction in which he wished her  to go. Instead she threw herself to the ground each time he sought to  place her upon her feet, and so of necessity he was compelled to carry  her though at last he tied her hands and gagged her to save himself  
driven into a corner and forced to do so. Secretly the warriors of  Pal-ul-don held the emasculated priesthood in contempt and so instead  of immediately taking up the offensive as they would have had the two  men been warriors from A-lur instead of priests, they waited to  question them.    At sight of the warriors the priests made the sign of peace and upon  being asked if they were alone they answered in the affirmative.    The leader of Mo-sar's warriors permitted them to approach.  "What do  you here," he asked, "in the country of Mo-sar, so far from your own  city?"    "We carry a message from Lu-don, the high priest, to Mo-sar," explained  one.    "Is it a message of peace or of war?" asked the warrior.    "It is an offer of peace," replied the priest.    "And Lu-don is sending no warriors behind you?" queried the fighting  man.    "We are alone," the priest assured him. "None in A-lur save Lu-don  knows that we have come upon this errand."    "Then go your way," said the warrior.    "Who is that?" asked one of the priests suddenly, pointing toward the  upper end of the lake at the point where the river from Jad-bal-lul  entered it.    All eyes turned in the direction that he had indicated to see a lone  warrior paddling rapidly into Jad-in-lul, the prow of his canoe  pointing toward Tu-lur. The warriors and the priests drew into the  concealment of the bushes on either side of the portage.    "It is the terrible man who called himself the Dor-ul-Otho," whispered  one of the priests. "I would know that figure among a great multitude  as far as I could see it."    "You are right, priest," cried one of the warriors who had seen Tarzan  the day that he had first entered Ko-tan's palace. "It is indeed he who  has been rightly called Tarzan-jad-guru."    "Hasten priests," cried the leader of the party. "You are two paddles  in a light canoe. Easily can you reach Tu-lur ahead of him and warn  Mo-sar of his coming, for he has but only entered the lake." 
figure of a man stepped into view. At first she did not recognize him,  but when she did, instinctively she stepped back.    "Lieutenant Obergatz!" she cried. "Can it be you?"    "It can. It is," replied the German. "I am a strange sight, no doubt;  but still it is I, Erich Obergatz. And you? You have changed too, is it  not?"    He was looking at her naked limbs and her golden breastplates, the loin  cloth of JATO-hide, the harness and ornaments that constitute the  apparel of a Ho-don woman--the things that Lu-don had dressed her in as  his passion for her grew. Not Ko-tan's daughter, even, had finer  trappings.    "But why are you here?" Jane insisted. "I had thought you safely among  civilized men by this time, if you still lived."    "Gott!" he exclaimed. "I do not know why I continue to live. I have  prayed to die and yet I cling to life. There is no hope. We are doomed  to remain in this horrible land until we die. The bog! The frightful  bog! I have searched its shores for a place to cross until I have  entirely circled the hideous country. Easily enough we entered; but the  rains have come since and now no living man could pass that slough of  slimy mud and hungry reptiles. Have I not tried it! And the beasts that  roam this accursed land. They hunt me by day and by night."    "But how have you escaped them?" she asked.    "I do not know," he replied gloomily. "I have fled and fled and fled. I  have remained hungry and thirsty in tree tops for days at a time. I  have fashioned weapons--clubs and spears--and I have learned to use  them. I have slain a lion with my club. So even will a cornered rat  fight. And we are no better than rats in this land of stupendous  dangers, you and I. But tell me about yourself. If it is surprising  that I live, how much more so that you still survive."    Briefly she told him and all the while she was wondering what she might  do to rid herself of him. She could not conceive of a prolonged 
this she inserted the point of her spear. The thing must have heard her  move within for suddenly it abandoned its efforts for stealth and tore  angrily at the obstacle. At the same moment Jane thrust her spear  forward with all her strength. She felt it enter flesh. There was a  scream and a curse from without, followed by the crashing of a body  through limbs and foliage. Her spear was almost dragged from her grasp,  but she held to it until it broke free from the thing it had pierced.    It was Obergatz; the curse had told her that. From below came no  further sound. Had she, then, killed him? She prayed so--with all her  heart she prayed it. To be freed from the menace of this loathsome  creature were relief indeed. During all the balance of the night she  lay there awake, listening. Below her, she imagined, she could see the  dead man with his hideous face bathed in the cold light of the  moon--lying there upon his back staring up at her.    She prayed that JA might come and drag it away, but all during the  remainder of the night she heard never another sound above the drowsy  hum of the jungle. She was glad that he was dead, but she dreaded the  gruesome ordeal that awaited her on the morrow, for she must bury the  thing that had been Erich Obergatz and live on there above the shallow  grave of the man she had slain.    She reproached herself for her weakness, repeating over and over that  she had killed in self-defense, that her act was justified; but she was  still a woman of today, and strong upon her were the iron mandates of  the social order from which she had sprung, its interdictions and its  superstitions.    At last came the tardy dawn. Slowly the sun topped the distant  mountains beyond Jad-in-lul. And yet she hesitated to loosen the  fastenings of her door and look out upon the thing below. But it must  be done. She steeled herself and untied the rawhide thong that secured  the barrier. She looked down and only the grass and the flowers looked  up at her. She came from her shelter and examined the ground upon the 
ran like wildfire through the palace and out into the city and beyond  that to the lesser villages all the way from A-lur to Tu-lur.    The real god had come--Jad-ben-Otho himself, and he had espoused the  cause of Lu-don, the high priest. Mo-sar lost no time in placing  himself at the disposal of Lu-don, nor did he mention aught about his  claims to the throne. It was Mo-sar's opinion that he might consider  himself fortunate were he allowed to remain in peaceful occupation of  his chieftainship at Tu-lur, nor was Mo-sar wrong in his deductions.    But Lu-don could still use him and so he let him live and sent word to  him to come to A-lur with all his warriors, for it was rumored that  Ja-don was raising a great army in the north and might soon march upon  the City of Light.    Obergatz thoroughly enjoyed being a god. Plenty of food and peace of  mind and rest partially brought back to him the reason that had been so  rapidly slipping from him; but in one respect he was madder than ever,  since now no power on earth would ever be able to convince him that he  was not a god. Slaves were put at his disposal and these he ordered  about in godly fashion. The same portion of his naturally cruel mind  met upon common ground the mind of Lu-don, so that the two seemed  always in accord. The high priest saw in the stranger a mighty force  wherewith to hold forever his power over all Pal-ul-don and thus the  future of Obergatz was assured so long as he cared to play god to  Lu-don's high priest.    A throne was erected in the main temple court before the eastern altar  where Jad-ben-Otho might sit in person and behold the sacrifices that  were offered up to him there each day at sunset.  So much did the  cruel, half-crazed mind enjoy these spectacles that at times he even  insisted upon wielding the sacrificial knife himself and upon such  occasions the priests and the people fell upon their faces in awe of  the dread deity.    If Obergatz taught them not to love their god more he taught them to 
of Lady Greystoke. The bare feet of the intruders gave forth no sound  as they crossed the stone floor toward her. A ray of moonlight entering  through a window near her couch shone full upon her, revealing the  beautiful contours of an arm and shoulder in cameo-distinctness against  the dark furry pelt beneath which she slept, and the perfect profile  that was turned toward the skulking three.    But neither the beauty nor the helplessness of the sleeper aroused such  sentiments of passion or pity as might stir in the breasts of normal  men. To the three priests she was but a lump of clay, nor could they  conceive aught of that passion which had aroused men to intrigue and to  murder for possession of this beautiful American girl, and which even  now was influencing the destiny of undiscovered Pal-ul-don.    Upon the floor of the chamber were numerous pelts and as the leader of  the trio came close to the sleeping woman he stooped and gathered up  one of the smaller of these. Standing close to her head he held the rug  outspread above her face. "Now," he whispered and simultaneously he  threw the rug over the woman's head and his two fellows leaped upon  her, seizing her arms and pinioning her body while their leader stifled  her cries with the furry pelt. Quickly and silently they bound her  wrists and gagged her and during the brief time that their work  required there was no sound that might have been heard by occupants of  the adjoining apartments.    Jerking her roughly to her feet they forced her toward a window but she  refused to walk, throwing herself instead upon the floor. They were  very angry and would have resorted to cruelties to compel her obedience  but dared not, since the wrath of Lu-don might fall heavily upon  whoever mutilated his fair prize.    And so they were forced to lift and carry her bodily. Nor was the task  any sinecure since the captive kicked and struggled as best she might,  making their labor as arduous as possible. But finally they succeeded  in getting her through the window and into the garden beyond where one  
  Tarzan smiled. "I have been struck thus before, Jane," he said, "and  always has the striker died."    "You still have hope?" she asked.    "I am still alive," he said as though that were sufficient answer. She  was a woman and she did not have the courage of this man who knew no  fear. In her heart of hearts she knew that he would die upon the altar  at high noon for he had told her, after he had been brought to the  inner court, of the sentence of death that Obergatz had pronounced upon  him, and she knew too that Tarzan knew that he would die, but that he  was too courageous to admit it even to himself.    As she looked upon him standing there so straight and wonderful and  brave among his savage captors her heart cried out against the cruelty  of the fate that had overtaken him. It seemed a gross and hideous wrong  that that wonderful creature, now so quick with exuberant life and  strength and purpose should be presently naught but a bleeding lump of  clay--and all so uselessly and wantonly. Gladly would she have offered  her life for his but she knew that it was a waste of words since their  captors would work upon them whatever it was their will to do--for him,  death; for her--she shuddered at the thought.    And now came Lu-don and the naked Obergatz, and the high priest led the  German to his place behind the altar, himself standing upon the other's  left. Lu-don whispered a word to Obergatz, at the same time nodding in  the direction of Ja-don. The Hun cast a scowling look upon the old  warrior.    "And after the false god," he cried, "the false prophet," and he  pointed an accusing finger at Ja-don. Then his eyes wandered to the  form of Jane Clayton.    "And the woman, too?" asked Lu-don.    "The case of the woman I will attend to later," replied Obergatz. "I  will talk with her tonight after she has had a chance to meditate upon  the consequences of arousing the wrath of Jad-ben-Otho."    He cast his eyes upward at the sun. "The time approaches," he said to 
