upon a low-swinging branch in a near-by tree and looked down upon her.    Just to have seen him there, lolling upon the swaying bough of the  jungle-forest giant, his brown skin mottled by the brilliant equatorial  sunlight which percolated through the leafy canopy of green above him,  his clean-limbed body relaxed in graceful ease, his shapely head partly  turned in contemplative absorption and his intelligent, gray eyes  dreamily devouring the object of their devotion, you would have thought  him the reincarnation of some demigod of old.    You would not have guessed that in infancy he had suckled at the breast  of a hideous, hairy she-ape, nor that in all his conscious past since  his parents had passed away in the little cabin by the landlocked  harbor at the jungle's verge, he had known no other associates than the  sullen bulls and the snarling cows of the tribe of Kerchak, the great  ape.    Nor, could you have read the thoughts which passed through that active,  healthy brain, the longings and desires and aspirations which the sight  of Teeka inspired, would you have been any more inclined to give  credence to the reality of the origin of the ape-man. For, from his  thoughts alone, you could never have gleaned the truth--that he had  been born to a gentle English lady or that his sire had been an English  nobleman of time-honored lineage.    Lost to Tarzan of the Apes was the truth of his origin.  That he was  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, with a seat in the House of Lords, he did  not know, nor, knowing, would have understood.    Yes, Teeka was indeed beautiful!    Of course Kala had been beautiful--one's mother is always that--but  Teeka was beautiful in a way all her own, an indescribable sort of way  which Tarzan was just beginning to sense in a rather vague and hazy  manner.    For years had Tarzan and Teeka been play-fellows, and Teeka still  continued to be playful while the young bulls of her own age were  rapidly becoming surly and morose.  Tarzan, if he gave the matter much  thought at all, probably reasoned that his growing attachment for the 
 showing white about them, and entirely unrimmed with red.  Taug knew  that his own blood-shot eyes were beautiful, for he had seen them  reflected in the glassy surface of many a drinking pool.    The bull drew nearer to Teeka, finally squatting close against her.  When Tarzan returned from his hunting a short time later it was to see  Teeka contentedly scratching the back of his rival.    Tarzan was disgusted.  Neither Taug nor Teeka saw him as he swung  through the trees into the glade.  He paused a moment, looking at them;  then, with a sorrowful grimace, he turned and faded away into the  labyrinth of leafy boughs and festooned moss out of which he had come.    Tarzan wished to be as far away from the cause of his heartache as he  could.  He was suffering the first pangs of blighted love, and he  didn't quite know what was the matter with him.  He thought that he was  angry with Taug, and so he couldn't understand why it was that he had  run away instead of rushing into mortal combat with the destroyer of  his happiness.    He also thought that he was angry with Teeka, yet a vision of her many  beauties persisted in haunting him, so that he could only see her in  the light of love as the most desirable thing in the world.    The ape-boy craved affection.  From babyhood until the time of her  death, when the poisoned arrow of Kulonga had pierced her savage heart,  Kala had represented to the English boy the sole object of love which  he had known.    In her wild, fierce way Kala had loved her adopted son, and Tarzan had  returned that love, though the outward demonstrations of it were no  greater than might have been expected from any other beast of the  jungle.  It was not until he was bereft of her that the boy realized  how deep had been his attachment for his mother, for as such he looked  upon her.    In Teeka he had seen within the past few hours a substitute for  Kala--someone to fight for and to hunt for--someone to caress; but now 
concealed pit, for the ways of the blacks were still strange ways to  Tarzan.  They had entered his jungle but a short time before--the first  of their kind to encroach upon the age-old supremacy of the beasts  which laired there.  To Numa, the lion, to Tantor, the elephant, to the  great apes and the lesser apes, to each and all of the myriad creatures  of this savage wild, the ways of man were new.  They had much to learn  of these black, hairless creatures that walked erect upon their hind  paws--and they were learning it slowly, and always to their sorrow.    Shortly after the blacks had departed, Tarzan swung easily to the  trail.  Sniffing suspiciously, he circled the edge of the pit.  Squatting upon his haunches, he scraped away a little earth to expose  one of the cross-bars. He sniffed at this, touched it, cocked his head  upon one side, and contemplated it gravely for several minutes.  Then  he carefully re-covered it, arranging the earth as neatly as had the  blacks.  This done, he swung himself back among the branches of the  trees and moved off in search of his hairy fellows, the great apes of  the tribe of Kerchak.    Once he crossed the trail of Numa, the lion, pausing for a moment to  hurl a soft fruit at the snarling face of his enemy, and to taunt and  insult him, calling him eater of carrion and brother of Dango, the  hyena.  Numa, his yellow-green eyes round and burning with concentrated  hate, glared up at the dancing figure above him.  Low growls vibrated  his heavy jowls and his great rage transmitted to his sinuous tail a  sharp, whiplike motion; but realizing from past experience the futility  of long distance argument with the ape-man, he turned presently and  struck off into the tangled vegetation which hid him from the view of  his tormentor.  With a final scream of jungle invective and an apelike  grimace at his departing foe, Tarzan continued along his way.    Another mile and a shifting wind brought to his keen nostrils a  familiar, pungent odor close at hand, and a moment later there loomed 
 guarded him to leap back even though their prisoner's arms were  securely bound behind him.    With raised spears they encircled him as for a moment longer he stood  listening.  Faintly from the distance came another, an answering cry,  and Tarzan of the Apes, satisfied, turned and quietly pursued his way  toward the hut where he was to be imprisoned.    The afternoon wore on.  From the surrounding village the ape-man heard  the bustle of preparation for the feast.  Through the doorway of the  hut he saw the women laying the cooking fires and filling their earthen  caldrons with water; but above it all his ears were bent across the  jungle in eager listening for the coming of Tantor.    Even Tarzan but half believed that he would come.  He knew Tantor even  better than Tantor knew himself.  He knew the timid heart which lay in  the giant body.  He knew the panic of terror which the scent of the  Gomangani inspired within that savage breast, and as night drew on,  hope died within his heart and in the stoic calm of the wild beast  which he was, he resigned himself to meet the fate which awaited him.    All afternoon he had been working, working, working with the bonds that  held his wrists.  Very slowly they were giving.  He might free his  hands before they came to lead him out to be butchered, and if he  did--Tarzan licked his lips in anticipation, and smiled a cold, grim  smile.  He could imagine the feel of soft flesh beneath his fingers and  the sinking of his white teeth into the throats of his foemen.  He  would let them taste his wrath before they overpowered him!    At last they came--painted, befeathered warriors--even more hideous  than nature had intended them.  They came and pushed him into the open,  where his appearance was greeted by wild shouts from the assembled  villagers.    To the stake they led him, and as they pushed him roughly against it  preparatory to binding him there securely for the dance of death that  would presently encircle him, Tarzan tensed his mighty thews and with a 
fighter! None in all the jungle so great as Tarzan."    Then he made his way back in the direction of Taug.  Teeka had watched  the happenings in the tree.  She had even placed her precious balu upon  the soft grasses and come a little nearer that she might better witness  all that was passing in the branches above her.  In her heart of hearts  did she still esteem the smooth-skinned Tarzan?  Did her savage breast  swell with pride as she witnessed his victory over the ape? You will  have to ask Teeka.    And Sheeta, the panther, saw that the she-ape had left her cub alone  among the grasses.  He moved his tail again, as though this closest  approximation of lashing in which he dared indulge might stimulate his  momentarily waned courage.  The cry of the victorious ape-man still  held his nerves beneath its spell.  It would be several minutes before  he again could bring himself to the point of charging into view of the  giant anthropoids.    And as he regathered his forces, Tarzan reached Taug's side, and then  clambering higher up to the point where the end of the grass rope was  made fast, he unloosed it and lowered the ape slowly downward, swinging  him in until the clutching hands fastened upon a limb.    Quickly Taug drew himself to a position of safety and shook off the  noose.  In his rage-maddened heart was no room for gratitude to the  ape-man. He recalled only the fact that Tarzan had laid this painful  indignity upon him.  He would be revenged, but just at present his legs  were so numb and his head so dizzy that he must postpone the  gratification of his vengeance.    Tarzan was coiling his rope the while he lectured Taug on the futility  of pitting his poor powers, physical and intellectual, against those of  his betters.  Teeka had come close beneath the tree and was peering  upward.  Sheeta was worming his way stealthily forward, his belly close  to the ground.  In another moment he would be clear of the underbrush  and ready for the rapid charge and the quick retreat that would end the 
 in the village street, he saw men and women.  The men were hideously  painted--more hideously than usual.  Among them moved a weird and  grotesque figure, a tall figure that went upon the two legs of a man  and yet had the head of a buffalo.  A tail dangled to his ankles behind  him, and in one hand he carried a zebra's tail while the other clutched  a bunch of small arrows.    Tarzan was electrified.  Could it be that chance had given him thus  early an opportunity to look upon God? Surely this thing was neither  man nor beast, so what could it be then other than the Creator of the  Universe! The ape-man watched the every move of the strange creature.  He saw the black men and women fall back at its approach as though they  stood in terror of its mysterious powers.    Presently he discovered that the deity was speaking and that all  listened in silence to his words.  Tarzan was sure that none other than  God could inspire such awe in the hearts of the Gomangani, or stop  their mouths so effectually without recourse to arrows or spears.  Tarzan had come to look with contempt upon the blacks, principally  because of their garrulity.  The small apes talked a great deal and ran  away from an enemy.  The big, old bulls of Kerchak talked but little  and fought upon the slightest provocation.  Numa, the lion, was not  given to loquacity, yet of all the jungle folk there were few who  fought more often than he.    Tarzan witnessed strange things that night, none of which he  understood, and, perhaps because they were strange, he thought that  they must have to do with the God he could not understand.  He saw  three youths receive their first war spears in a weird ceremony which  the grotesque witch-doctor strove successfully to render uncanny and  awesome.    Hugely interested, he watched the slashing of the three brown arms and  the exchange of blood with Mbonga, the chief, in the rites of the  ceremony of blood brotherhood.  He saw the zebra's tail dipped into a  caldron of water above which the witch-doctor had made magical passes 
saw her, the she-ape leaped upon the glistening body of the snake, and  as the mighty folds encircled her as well as her offspring, she made no  effort to escape, but instead grasped the writhing body in a futile  effort to tear it from her screaming balu.    Tarzan knew all too well how deep-rooted was Teeka's terror of Histah.  He scarce could believe the testimony of his own eyes then, when they  told him that she had voluntarily rushed into that deadly embrace.  Nor  was Teeka's innate dread of the monster much greater than Tarzan's own.  Never, willingly, had he touched a snake.  Why, he could not say, for  he would admit fear of nothing; nor was it fear, but rather an inherent  repulsion bequeathed to him by many generations of civilized ancestors,  and back of them, perhaps, by countless myriads of such as Teeka, in  the breasts of each of which had lurked the same nameless terror of the  slimy reptile.    Yet Tarzan did not hesitate more than had Teeka, but leaped upon Histah  with all the speed and impetuosity that he would have shown had he been  springing upon Bara, the deer, to make a kill for food.  Thus beset the  snake writhed and twisted horribly; but not for an instant did it loose  its hold upon any of its intended victims, for it had included the  ape-man in its cold embrace the minute that he had fallen upon it.    Still clinging to the tree, the mighty reptile held the three as though  they had been without weight, the while it sought to crush the life  from them.  Tarzan had drawn his knife and this he now plunged rapidly  into the body of the enemy; but the encircling folds promised to sap  his life before he had inflicted a death wound upon the snake.  Yet on  he fought, nor once did he seek to escape the horrid death that  confronted him--his sole aim was to slay Histah and thus free Teeka and  her balu.    The great, wide-gaping jaws of the snake turned and hovered above him.  The elastic maw, which could accommodate a rabbit or a horned buck with 
 Biting and kicking was the black she's balu as Tarzan tucked him  beneath his arm and vanished into the branches hanging low above him,  just as the infuriated mother dashed forward to seize and do battle  with him.  And as he melted away into the depth of the jungle with his  still struggling prize, he meditated upon the possibilities which might  lie in the prowess of the Gomangani were the hes as formidable as the  shes.    Once at a safe distance from the despoiled mother and out of earshot of  her screams and menaces, Tarzan paused to inspect his prize, now so  thoroughly terrorized that he had ceased his struggles and his outcries.    The frightened child rolled his eyes fearfully toward his captor, until  the whites showed gleaming all about the irises.    "I am Tarzan," said the ape-man, in the vernacular of the anthropoids.  "I will not harm you.  You are to be Tarzan's balu.  Tarzan will  protect you.  He will feed you.  The best in the jungle shall be for  Tarzan's balu, for Tarzan is a mighty hunter.  None need you fear, not  even Numa, the lion, for Tarzan is a mighty fighter.  None so great as  Tarzan, son of Kala.  Do not fear."    But the child only whimpered and trembled, for he did not understand  the tongue of the great apes, and the voice of Tarzan sounded to him  like the barking and growling of a beast.  Then, too, he had heard  stories of this bad, white forest god.  It was he who had slain Kulonga  and others of the warriors of Mbonga, the chief.  It was he who entered  the village stealthily, by magic, in the darkness of the night, to  steal arrows and poison, and frighten the women and the children and  even the great warriors.  Doubtless this wicked god fed upon little  boys.  Had his mother not said as much when he was naughty and she  threatened to give him to the white god of the jungle if he were not  good? Little black Tibo shook as with ague.    "Are you cold, Go-bu-balu?" asked Tarzan, using the simian equivalent 
  As the two hunted, or rather as Tarzan hunted and Go-bu-balu tagged  along in his wake, the ape-man noticed many things and thought much.  Once they came upon Sabor moaning in the tall grasses.  About her  romped and played two little balls of fur, but her eyes were for one  which lay between her great forepaws and did not romp, one who never  would romp again.    Tarzan read aright the anguish and the suffering of the huge mother  cat.  He had been minded to bait her.  It was to do this that he had  sneaked silently through the trees until he had come almost above her,  but something held the ape-man as he saw the lioness grieving over her  dead cub.  With the acquisition of Go-bu-balu, Tarzan had come to  realize the responsibilities and sorrows of parentage, without its  joys.  His heart went out to Sabor as it might not have done a few  weeks before.  As he watched her, there rose quite unbidden before him  a vision of Momaya, the skewer through the septum of her nose, her  pendulous under lip sagging beneath the weight which dragged it down.  Tarzan saw not her unloveliness; he saw only the same anguish that was  Sabor's, and he winced.  That strange functioning of the mind which  sometimes is called association of ideas snapped Teeka and Gazan before  the ape-man's mental vision.  What if one should come and take Gazan  from Teeka.  Tarzan uttered a low and ominous growl as though Gazan  were his own.  Go-bu-balu glanced here and there apprehensively,  thinking that Tarzan had espied an enemy.  Sabor sprang suddenly to her  feet, her yellow-green eyes blazing, her tail lashing as she cocked her  ears, and raising her muzzle, sniffed the air for possible danger.  The  two little cubs, which had been playing, scampered quickly to her, and  standing beneath her, peered out from between her forelegs, their big  ears upstanding, their little heads cocked first upon one side and then  upon the other.    With a shake of his black shock, Tarzan turned away and resumed his  hunting in another direction; but all day there rose one after another, 
 a short experience of the little black boy had made it quite plain to  the ape-man that no such sentiment could exist between them.    The fact that he had for a time treated the little black as he might  have treated a real balu of his own had in no way altered the vengeful  sentiments with which he considered the murderers of Kala.  The  Gomangani were his deadly enemies, nor could they ever be aught else.  Today he looked forward to some slight relief from the monotony of his  existence in such excitement as he might derive from baiting the blacks.    It was not yet dark when he reached the village and took his place in  the great tree overhanging the palisade.  From beneath came a great  wailing out of the depths of a near-by hut.  The noise fell  disagreeably upon Tarzan's ears--it jarred and grated.  He did not like  it, so he decided to go away for a while in the hopes that it might  cease; but though he was gone for a couple of hours the wailing still  continued when he returned.    With the intention of putting a violent termination to the annoying  sound, Tarzan slipped silently from the tree into the shadows beneath.  Creeping stealthily and keeping well in the cover of other huts, he  approached that from which rose the sounds of lamentation.  A fire  burned brightly before the doorway as it did before other doorways in  the village.  A few females squatted about, occasionally adding their  own mournful howlings to those of the master artist within.    The ape-man smiled a slow smile as he thought of the consternation  which would follow the quick leap that would carry him among the  females and into the full light of the fire.  Then he would dart into  the hut during the excitement, throttle the chief screamer, and be gone  into the jungle before the blacks could gather their scattered nerves  for an assault.    Many times had Tarzan behaved similarly in the village of Mbonga, the  chief.  His mysterious and unexpected appearances always filled the  breasts of the poor, superstitious blacks with the panic of terror; 
mind, for with the coming of daylight the half-famished hyenas renewed  their efforts to break down the frail barrier which kept them from  their prey.  Rearing upon their hind feet they clawed and struck at the  lattice.  With wide eyes Tibo saw it sag and rock.  Not for long, he  knew, could it withstand the assaults of these two powerful and  determined brutes.  Already one corner had been forced past the rocky  protuberance of the entrance way which had held it in place.  A shaggy  forearm protruded into the chamber.  Tibo trembled as with ague, for he  knew that the end was near.    Backing against the farther wall he stood flattened out as far from the  beasts as he could get.  He saw the lattice give still more.  He saw a  savage, snarling head forced past it, and grinning jaws snapping and  gaping toward him.  In another instant the pitiful fabric would fall  inward, and the two would be upon him, rending his flesh from his  bones, gnawing the bones themselves, fighting for possession of his  entrails.    * * *    Bukawai came upon Momaya outside the palisade of Mbonga, the chief.  At  sight of him the woman drew back in revulsion, then she flew at him,  tooth and nail; but Bukawai threatening her with a spear held her at a  safe distance.    "Where is my baby?" she cried.  "Where is my little Tibo?"    Bukawai opened his eyes in well-simulated amazement.  "Your baby!" he  exclaimed.  "What should I know of him, other than that I rescued him  from the white god of the jungle and have not yet received my pay.  I  come for the goats and the sleeping mat and the piece of copper wire  the length of a tall man's arm from the shoulder to the tips of his  fingers." "Offal of a hyena!" shrieked Momaya.  "My child has been  stolen, and you, rotting fragment of a man, have taken him.  Return him  to me or I shall tear your eyes from your head and feed your heart to  the wild hogs."  
 for Tarzan's nimbleness, and the zealous watchfulness of savage Kala's  mother love, Tublat would long since have rid himself of this stain  upon his family escutcheon.  So long had it been since Tarzan became a  member of the tribe, that Tublat had forgotten the circumstances  surrounding the entrance of the jungle waif into his family, with the  result that he now imagined that Tarzan was his own offspring, adding  greatly to his chagrin.      Wide and far swung Tarzan of the Apes, until at last, as he reached the  highest point of the arc the rope, which rapidly had frayed on the  rough bark of the tree limb, parted suddenly.  The watching apes saw  the smooth, brown body shoot outward, and down, plummet-like. Tublat  leaped high in the air, emitting what in a human being would have been  an exclamation of delight.  This would be the end of Tarzan and most of  Tublat's troubles.  From now on he could lead his life in peace and  security.    Tarzan fell quite forty feet, alighting on his back in a thick bush.  Kala was the first to reach his side--ferocious, hideous, loving Kala.  She had seen the life crushed from her own balu in just such a fall  years before.  Was she to lose this one too in the same way? Tarzan was  lying quite still when she found him, embedded deeply in the bush.  It  took Kala several minutes to disentangle him and drag him forth; but he  was not killed.  He was not even badly injured.  The bush had broken  the force of the fall.  A cut upon the back of his head showed where he  had struck the tough stem of the shrub and explained his  unconsciousness.    In a few minutes he was as active as ever.  Tublat was furious.  In his  rage he snapped at a fellow-ape without first discovering the identity  of his victim, and was badly mauled for his ill temper, having chosen  to vent his spite upon a husky and belligerent young bull in the full  prime of his vigor.    But Tarzan had learned something new.  He had learned that continued 
pattering of scurrying hoofs and the herd was gone; but Numa, the lion,  moved not.  He was familiar with the ways of Pacco, the zebra.  He knew  that he would return, though many times he might wheel and fly before  he summoned the courage to lead his harem and his offspring to the  water.  There was the chance that Pacco might be frightened off  entirely.  Numa had seen this happen before, and so he became almost  rigid lest he be the one to send them galloping, waterless, back to the  plain.    Again and again came Pacco and his family, and again and again did they  turn and flee; but each time they came closer to the river, until at  last the plump stallion dipped his velvet muzzle daintily into the  water.  The others, stepping warily, approached their leader.  Numa  selected a sleek, fat filly and his flaming eyes burned greedily as  they feasted upon her, for Numa, the lion, loves scarce anything better  than the meat of Pacco, perhaps because Pacco is, of all the  grass-eaters, the most difficult to catch.    Slowly the lion rose, and as he rose, a twig snapped beneath one of his  great, padded paws.  Like a shot from a rifle he charged upon the  filly; but the snapped twig had been enough to startle the timorous  quarry, so that they were in instant flight simultaneously with Numa's  charge.    The stallion was last, and with a prodigious leap, the lion catapulted  through the air to seize him; but the snapping twig had robbed Numa of  his dinner, though his mighty talons raked the zebra's glossy rump,  leaving four crimson bars across the beautiful coat.    It was an angry Numa that quitted the river and prowled, fierce,  dangerous, and hungry, into the jungle.  Far from particular now was  his appetite.  Even Dango, the hyena, would have seemed a tidbit to  that ravenous maw.  And in this temper it was that the lion came upon  the tribe of Kerchak, the great ape.    One does not look for Numa, the lion, this late in the morning.  He  
 "Come, Manu," said Tarzan, "and you will see that which shall make you  dance for joy and squeal your wrinkled little head off.  Come, follow  Tarzan of the Apes."    With that he set off in the direction Manu had indicated and above him,  chattering, scolding and squealing, skipped Manu, the monkey.  Across  Tarzan's shoulders was the thing he had stolen from the village of  Mbonga, the chief, the evening before.    The tribe was feeding in the forest beside the clearing where Gunto,  and Taug, and Tarzan had so harassed Numa and finally taken away from  him the fruit of his kill.  Some of them were in the clearing itself.  In peace and content they fed, for were there not three sentries, each  watching upon a different side of the herd? Tarzan had taught them  this, and though he had been away for several days hunting alone, as he  often did, or visiting at the cabin by the sea, they had not as yet  forgotten his admonitions, and if they continued for a short time  longer to post sentries, it would become a habit of their tribal life  and thus be perpetuated indefinitely.    But Tarzan, who knew them better than they knew themselves, was  confident that they had ceased to place the watchers about them the  moment that he had left them, and now he planned not only to have a  little fun at their expense but to teach them a lesson in preparedness,  which, by the way, is even a more vital issue in the jungle than in  civilized places.  That you and I exist today must be due to the  preparedness of some shaggy anthropoid of the Oligocene.  Of course the  apes of Kerchak were always prepared, after their own way--Tarzan had  merely suggested a new and additional safeguard.    Gunto was posted today to the north of the clearing.  He squatted in  the fork of a tree from where he might view the jungle for quite a  distance about him.  It was he who first discovered the enemy.  A  rustling in the undergrowth attracted his attention, and a moment later  he had a partial view of a shaggy mane and tawny yellow back.  Just a 
And so the night wore on, dream following dream, nightmare following  nightmare, until the distracted ape-man started like a frightened deer  at the rustling of the wind in the trees about him, or leaped to his  feet as the uncanny laugh of a hyena burst suddenly upon a momentary  jungle silence.  But at last the tardy morning broke and a sick and  feverish Tarzan wound sluggishly through the dank and gloomy mazes of  the forest in search of water.  His whole body seemed on fire, a great  sickness surged upward to his throat.  He saw a tangle of almost  impenetrable thicket, and, like the wild beast he was, he crawled into  it to die alone and unseen, safe from the attacks of predatory  carnivora.    But he did not die.  For a long time he wanted to; but presently nature  and an outraged stomach relieved themselves in their own therapeutic  manner, the ape-man broke into a violent perspiration and then fell  into a normal and untroubled sleep which persisted well into the  afternoon.  When he awoke he found himself weak but no longer sick.    Once more he sought water, and after drinking deeply, took his way  slowly toward the cabin by the sea.  In times of loneliness and trouble  it had long been his custom to seek there the quiet and restfulness  which he could find nowhere else.    As he approached the cabin and raised the crude latch which his father  had fashioned so many years before, two small, blood-shot eyes watched  him from the concealing foliage of the jungle close by.  From beneath  shaggy, beetling brows they glared maliciously upon him, maliciously  and with a keen curiosity; then Tarzan entered the cabin and closed the  door after him.  Here, with all the world shut out from him, he could  dream without fear of interruption.  He could curl up and look at the  pictures in the strange things which were books, he could puzzle out  the printed word he had learned to read without knowledge of the spoken  language it represented, he could live in a wonderful world of which he  had no knowledge beyond the covers of his beloved books.  Numa and 
 Instantly she realized what the bull purposed.  Gazan clung far out  upon a swaying limb.  At the first shake he lost his balance, though he  did not quite fall, clinging still with his four hands; but Toog  redoubled his efforts; the shaking produced a violent snapping of the  limb to which the young ape clung.  Teeka saw all too plainly what the  outcome must be and forgetting her own danger in the depth of her  mother love, rushed forward to ascend the tree and give battle to the  fearsome creature that menaced the life of her little one.    But before ever she reached the bole, Toog had succeeded, by violent  shaking of the branch, to loosen Gazan's hold.  With a cry the little  fellow plunged down through the foliage, clutching futilely for a new  hold, and alighted with a sickening thud at his mother's feet, where he  lay silent and motionless.  Moaning, Teeka stooped to lift the still  form in her arms; but at the same instant Toog was upon her.    Struggling and biting she fought to free herself; but the giant muscles  of the great bull were too much for her lesser strength.  Toog struck  and choked her repeatedly until finally, half unconscious, she lapsed  into quasi submission.  Then the bull lifted her to his shoulder and  turned back to the trail toward the south from whence he had come.    Upon the ground lay the quiet form of little Gazan.  He did not moan.  He did not move.  The sun rose slowly toward meridian.  A mangy thing,  lifting its nose to scent the jungle breeze, crept through the  underbrush.  It was Dango, the hyena.  Presently its ugly muzzle broke  through some near-by foliage and its cruel eyes fastened upon Gazan.    Early that morning, Tarzan of the Apes had gone to the cabin by the  sea, where he passed many an hour at such times as the tribe was  ranging in the vicinity.  On the floor lay the skeleton of a man--all  that remained of the former Lord Greystoke--lay as it had fallen some  twenty years before when Kerchak, the great ape, had thrown it, 
with his photographs and Bertillon measurements, equipped to recognize  a fugitive from civilized justice.    But with all their high-strung and delicately attuned perceptive  faculties the two bulls of the tribe of Kerchak were often sore pressed  to follow the trail at all, and at best were so delayed that in the  afternoon of the second day, they still had not overhauled the  fugitive.  The scent was now strong, for it had been made since the  rain, and Tarzan knew that it would not be long before they came upon  the thief and his loot.  Above them, as they crept stealthily forward,  chattered Manu, the monkey, and his thousand fellows; squawked and  screamed the brazen-throated birds of plumage; buzzed and hummed the  countless insects amid the rustling of the forest leaves, and, as they  passed, a little gray-beard, squeaking and scolding upon a swaying  branch, looked down and saw them.  Instantly the scolding and squeaking  ceased, and off tore the long-tailed mite as though Sheeta, the  panther, had been endowed with wings and was in close pursuit of him.  To all appearances he was only a very much frightened little monkey,  fleeing for his life--there seemed nothing sinister about him.    And what of Teeka during all this time? Was she at last resigned to her  fate and accompanying her new mate in the proper humility of a loving  and tractable spouse?  A single glance at the pair would have answered  these questions to the utter satisfaction of the most captious.  She  was torn and bleeding from many wounds, inflicted by the sullen Toog in  his vain efforts to subdue her to his will, and Toog too was disfigured  and mutilated; but with stubborn ferocity, he still clung to his now  useless prize.    On through the jungle he forced his way in the direction of the  stamping ground of his tribe.  He hoped that his king would have  forgotten his treason; but if not he was still resigned to his  fate--any fate would be better than suffering longer the sole  companionship of this frightful she, and then, too, he wished to  exhibit his captive to his fellows.  Maybe he could wish her on the 
 jugular; then he dragged it, bleeding, along the trail down to the  drinking hole, the half smile persisting upon his ordinarily grave  face.  At the water's edge the ape-man stooped and with hunting knife  and quick strong fingers deftly removed the dead kid's viscera.  Scraping a hole in the mud, he buried these parts which he did not eat,  and swinging the body to his shoulder took to the trees.    For a short distance he pursued his way in the wake of the black  warriors, coming down presently to bury the meat of his kill where it  would be safe from the depredations of Dango, the hyena, or the other  meat-eating beasts and birds of the jungle.  He was hungry.  Had he  been all beast he would have eaten; but his man-mind could entertain  urges even more potent than those of the belly, and now he was  concerned with an idea which kept a smile upon his lips and his eyes  sparkling in anticipation.  An idea, it was, which permitted him to  forget that he was hungry.    The meat safely cached, Tarzan trotted along the elephant trail after  the Gomangani.  Two or three miles from the cage he overtook them and  then he swung into the trees and followed above and behind  them--waiting his chance.    Among the blacks was Rabba Kega, the witch-doctor. Tarzan hated them  all; but Rabba Kega he especially hated.  As the blacks filed along the  winding path, Rabba Kega, being lazy, dropped behind.  This Tarzan  noted, and it filled him with satisfaction--his being radiated a grim  and terrible content.  Like an angel of death he hovered above the  unsuspecting black.    Rabba Kega, knowing that the village was but a short distance ahead,  sat down to rest.  Rest well, O Rabba Kega! It is thy last opportunity.    Tarzan crept stealthily among the branches of the tree above the  well-fed, self-satisfied witch-doctor.  He made no noise that the dull  ears of man could hear above the soughing of the gentle jungle breeze  among the undulating foliage of the upper terraces, and when he came  close above the black man he halted, well concealed by leafy branch and 
the questionable safety of the nearest huts, and the warriors were not  long in following their example, so that presently Tarzan was left in  sole possession of the village street.    But not for long.  Nor did he wish to be left thus long alone.  It  would not comport with his scheme.  Presently a head peered forth from  a near-by hut, and then another and another until a score or more of  warriors were looking out upon him, waiting for his next move--waiting  for the lion to charge or to attempt to escape from the village.    Their spears were ready in their hands against either a charge or a  bolt for freedom, and then the lion rose erect upon its hind legs, the  tawny skin dropped from it and there stood revealed before them in the  firelight the straight young figure of the white devil-god.    For an instant the blacks were too astonished to act.  They feared this  apparition fully as much as they did Numa, yet they would gladly have  slain the thing could they quickly enough have gathered together their  wits; but fear and superstition and a natural mental density held them  paralyzed while the ape-man stooped and gathered up the lion skin.  They saw him turn then and walk back into the shadows at the far end of  the village.  Not until then did they gain courage to pursue him, and  when they had come in force, with brandished spears and loud war cries,  the quarry was gone.    Not an instant did Tarzan pause in the tree.  Throwing the skin over a  branch he leaped again into the village upon the opposite side of the  great bole, and diving into the shadow of a hut, ran quickly to where  lay the caged lion.  Springing to the top of the cage he pulled upon  the cord which raised the door, and a moment later a great lion in the  prime of his strength and vigor leaped out into the village.    The warriors, returning from a futile search for Tarzan, saw him step  into the firelight.  Ah! there was the devil-god again, up to his old 
 watching the stars--the flaming eyes of the beasts of prey surrounding  Goro, the moon--Goro, by whose light the apes danced to the beating of  their earthen drums.  If Goro should be eaten by Numa there could be no  more Dum-Dums. Taug was overwhelmed by the thought.  He glanced at  Tarzan half fearfully.  Why was his friend so different from the others  of the tribe? No one else whom Taug ever had known had had such queer  thoughts as Tarzan.  The ape scratched his head and wondered, dimly, if  Tarzan was a safe companion, and then he recalled slowly, and by a  laborious mental process, that Tarzan had served him better than any  other of the apes, even the strong and wise bulls of the tribe.    Tarzan it was who had freed him from the blacks at the very time that  Taug had thought Tarzan wanted Teeka.  It was Tarzan who had saved  Taug's little balu from death.  It was Tarzan who had conceived and  carried out the plan to pursue Teeka's abductor and rescue the stolen  one.  Tarzan had fought and bled in Taug's service so many times that  Taug, although only a brutal ape, had had impressed upon his mind a  fierce loyalty which nothing now could swerve--his friendship for  Tarzan had become a habit, a tradition almost, which would endure while  Taug endured.  He never showed any outward demonstration of  affection--he growled at Tarzan as he growled at the other bulls who  came too close while he was feeding--but he would have died for Tarzan.  He knew it and Tarzan knew it; but of such things apes do not  speak--their vocabulary, for the finer instincts, consisting more of  actions than words.  But now Taug was worried, and he fell asleep again  still thinking of the strange words of his fellow.    The following day he thought of them again, and without any intention  of disloyalty he mentioned to Gunto what Tarzan had suggested about the  eyes surrounding Goro, and the possibility that sooner or later Numa  would charge the moon and devour him.  To the apes all large things in  nature are male, and so Goro, being the largest creature in the heavens 
