  Chapter 17. The Abbé’s Chamber    Chapter 18. The Treasure    Chapter 19. The Third Attack    Chapter 20. The Cemetery of the Château d’If    Chapter 21. The Island of Tiboulen    Chapter 22. The Smugglers    Chapter 23. The Island of Monte Cristo    Chapter 24. The Secret Cave    Chapter 25. The Unknown    Chapter 26. The Pont du Gard Inn    Chapter 27. The Story        VOLUME TWO    Chapter 28. The Prison Register    Chapter 29. The House of Morrel & Son    Chapter 30. The Fifth of September    Chapter 31. Italy: Sinbad the Sailor    Chapter 32. The Waking    Chapter 33. Roman Bandits    Chapter 34. The Colosseum    Chapter 35. La Mazzolata    Chapter 36. The Carnival at Rome.    Chapter 37. The Catacombs of Saint Sebastian    Chapter 38. The Compact    Chapter 39. The Guests    Chapter 40. The Breakfast    Chapter 41. The Presentation    Chapter 42. Monsieur Bertuccio    Chapter 43. The House at Auteuil    Chapter 44. The Vendetta    Chapter 45. The Rain of Blood    Chapter 46. Unlimited Credit    Chapter 47. The Dappled Grays        VOLUME THREE    Chapter 48. Ideology    Chapter 49. Haydée    Chapter 50. The Morrel Family    Chapter 51. Pyramus and Thisbe    Chapter 52. Toxicology    Chapter 53. Robert le Diable    Chapter 54. A Flurry in Stocks    Chapter 55. Major Cavalcanti    Chapter 56. Andrea Cavalcanti    Chapter 57. In the Lucern Patch    Chapter 58. M. Noirtier de Villefort    Chapter 59. The Will    Chapter 60. The Telegraph    Chapter 61. How a Gardener May Get Rid of the Dormice    Chapter 62. Ghosts    Chapter 63. The Dinner    Chapter 64. The Beggar  
was based upon sound and excellent principles. Then the king, who,  without our suspecting it, had overheard our conversation, interrupted  us by saying, ‘Villefort’--observe that the king did not pronounce the  word Noirtier, but, on the contrary, placed considerable emphasis on  that of Villefort--‘Villefort,’ said his majesty, ‘is a young man of  great judgment and discretion, who will be sure to make a figure in his  profession; I like him much, and it gave me great pleasure to hear that  he was about to become the son-in-law of the Marquis and Marquise de  Saint-Méran. I should myself have recommended the match, had not the  noble marquis anticipated my wishes by requesting my consent to it.’”    “Is it possible the king could have condescended so far as to express  himself so favorably of me?” asked the enraptured Villefort.    “I give you his very words; and if the marquis chooses to be candid, he  will confess that they perfectly agree with what his majesty said to  him, when he went six months ago to consult him upon the subject of your  espousing his daughter.”      “That is true,” answered the marquis.    “How much do I owe this gracious prince! What is there I would not do to  evince my earnest gratitude!”    “That is right,” cried the marquise. “I love to see you thus. Now, then,  were a conspirator to fall into your hands, he would be most welcome.”    “For my part, dear mother,” interposed Renée, “I trust your wishes will  not prosper, and that Providence will only permit petty offenders, poor  debtors, and miserable cheats to fall into M. de Villefort’s hands,--  then I shall be contented.”    “Just the same as though you prayed that a physician might only be  called upon to prescribe for headaches, measles, and the stings of  wasps, or any other slight affection of the epidermis. If you wish to  see me the king’s attorney, you must desire for me some of those violent  and dangerous diseases from the cure of which so much honor redounds to  the physician.”    At this moment, and as though the utterance of Villefort’s wish had 
  “I want to know what crime I have committed--to be tried; and if I am  guilty, to be shot; if innocent, to be set at liberty.”    “Are you well fed?” said the inspector.    “I believe so; I don’t know; it’s of no consequence. What matters  really, not only to me, but to officers of justice and the king, is that  an innocent man should languish in prison, the victim of an infamous  denunciation, to die here cursing his executioners.”    “You are very humble today,” remarked the governor; “you are not so  always; the other day, for instance, when you tried to kill the  turnkey.”    “It is true, sir, and I beg his pardon, for he has always been very good  to me, but I was mad.”    “And you are not so any longer?”    “No; captivity has subdued me--I have been here so long.”    “So long?--when were you arrested, then?” asked the inspector.    “The 28th of February, 1815, at half-past two in the afternoon.”    “Today is the 30th of July, 1816,--why it is but seventeen months.”    “Only seventeen months,” replied Dantès. “Oh, you do not know what is  seventeen months in prison!--seventeen ages rather, especially to a man  who, like me, had arrived at the summit of his ambition--to a man, who,  like me, was on the point of marrying a woman he adored, who saw an  honorable career opened before him, and who loses all in an instant--who  sees his prospects destroyed, and is ignorant of the fate of his  affianced wife, and whether his aged father be still living! Seventeen  months’ captivity to a sailor accustomed to the boundless ocean, is a  worse punishment than human crime ever merited. Have pity on me, then,  and ask for me, not intelligence, but a trial; not pardon, but a  verdict--a trial, sir, I ask only for a trial; that, surely, cannot be  denied to one who is accused!”    “We shall see,” said the inspector; then, turning to the governor, “On  my word, the poor devil touches me. You must show me the proofs against  him.”  
I will complete for you the incomplete words and unconnected sense.”    Faria, with an air of triumph, offered the paper to Dantès, who this  time read the following words, traced with an ink of a reddish color  resembling rust:--      “This 25th day of April, 1498, be... Alexander VI., and fearing that  not... he may desire to become my heir, and re... and Bentivoglio, who  were poisoned,... my sole heir, that I have bu... and has visited with  me, that is, in... Island of Monte Cristo, all I poss... jewels,  diamonds, gems; that I alone... may amount to nearly two mil... will  find on raising the twentieth ro... creek to the east in a right line.  Two open... in these caves; the treasure is in the furthest a... which  treasure I bequeath and leave en... as my sole heir. “25th April, 1498.  “Cæs...    “And now,” said the abbé, “read this other paper;” and he presented to  Dantès a second leaf with fragments of lines written on it, which Edmond  read as follows:--      “...ing invited to dine by his Holiness ...content with making me pay  for my hat, ...serves for me the fate of Cardinals Caprara ...I declare  to my nephew, Guido Spada ...ried in a place he knows ...the caves of  the small ...essed of ingots, gold, money, ...know of the existence of  this treasure, which ...lions of Roman crowns, and which he ...ck from  the small ...ings have been made ...ngle in the second; ...tire to him  ...ar † Spada.”    Faria followed him with an excited look, “and now,” he said, when he saw  that Dantès had read the last line, “put the two fragments together, and  judge for yourself.” Dantès obeyed, and the conjointed pieces gave the  following:--      “This 25th day of April, 1498, be...ing invited to dine by his Holiness  Alexander VI., and fearing that not...content with making me pay for my  hat, he may desire to become my heir, and re...serves for me the fate of  Cardinals Caprara and Bentivoglio, who were poisoned...I declare to my  nephew, Guido Spada, my sole heir, that I have bu...ried in a place he 
hear every word they uttered. Again the abbé had been obliged to swallow  a draught of water to calm the emotions that threatened to overpower  him. When he had sufficiently recovered himself, he said, “It appears,  then, that the miserable old man you were telling me of was forsaken by  everyone. Surely, had not such been the case, he would not have perished  by so dreadful a death.”    “Why, he was not altogether forsaken,” continued Caderousse, “for  Mercédès the Catalan and Monsieur Morrel were very kind to him; but  somehow the poor old man had contracted a profound hatred for Fernand--  the very person,” added Caderousse with a bitter smile, “that you named  just now as being one of Dantès’ faithful and attached friends.”    “And was he not so?” asked the abbé.    “Gaspard, Gaspard!” murmured the woman, from her seat on the stairs,  “mind what you are saying!” Caderousse made no reply to these words,  though evidently irritated and annoyed by the interruption, but,  addressing the abbé, said, “Can a man be faithful to another whose wife  he covets and desires for himself? But Dantès was so honorable and true  in his own nature, that he believed everybody’s professions of  friendship. Poor Edmond, he was cruelly deceived; but it was fortunate  that he never knew, or he might have found it more difficult, when on  his deathbed, to pardon his enemies. And, whatever people may say,”  continued Caderousse, in his native language, which was not altogether  devoid of rude poetry, “I cannot help being more frightened at the idea  of the malediction of the dead than the hatred of the living.”    “Imbecile!” exclaimed La Carconte.    “Do you, then, know in what manner Fernand injured Dantès?” inquired the  abbé of Caderousse.    “Do I? No one better.”    “Speak out then, say what it was!”    “Gaspard!” cried La Carconte, “do as you will; you are master--but if  you take my advice you’ll hold your tongue.”    “Well, wife,” replied Caderousse, “I don’t know but what you’re right!”    “So you will say nothing?” asked the abbé.    “Why, what good would it do?” asked Caderousse. “If the poor lad were 
the splendor of the apartment in which he found himself.    The entire chamber was lined with crimson brocade, worked with flowers  of gold. In a recess was a kind of divan, surmounted with a stand of  Arabian swords in silver scabbards, and the handles resplendent with  gems; from the ceiling hung a lamp of Venetian glass, of beautiful shape  and color, while the feet rested on a Turkey carpet, in which they sunk  to the instep; tapestry hung before the door by which Franz had entered,  and also in front of another door, leading into a second apartment which  seemed to be brilliantly illuminated.    The host gave Franz time to recover from his surprise, and, moreover,  returned look for look, not even taking his eyes off him.    “Sir,” he said, after a pause, “a thousand excuses for the precaution  taken in your introduction hither; but as, during the greater portion of  the year, this island is deserted, if the secret of this abode were  discovered. I should doubtless, find on my return my temporary  retirement in a state of great disorder, which would be exceedingly  annoying, not for the loss it occasioned me, but because I should not  have the certainty I now possess of separating myself from all the rest  of mankind at pleasure. Let me now endeavor to make you forget this  temporary unpleasantness, and offer you what no doubt you did not expect  to find here--that is to say, a tolerable supper and pretty comfortable  beds.”    “_Ma foi_, my dear sir,” replied Franz, “make no apologies. I have  always observed that they bandage people’s eyes who penetrate enchanted  palaces, for instance, those of Raoul in the _Huguenots_, and really I  have nothing to complain of, for what I see makes me think of the  wonders of the _Arabian Nights_.”      “Alas! I may say with Lucullus, if I could have anticipated the honor of  your visit, I would have prepared for it. But such as is my hermitage,  it is at your disposal; such as is my supper, it is yours to share, if  you will. Ali, is the supper ready?”    At this moment the tapestry moved aside, and a Nubian, black as ebony, 
  “And the very reason why the women of this fine country put so little  restraint on their words and actions, is because they live so much in  public, and have really nothing to conceal. Besides, you must have  perceived that the countess was really alarmed.”    “At what? At the sight of that respectable gentleman sitting opposite to  us in the same box with the lovely Greek girl? Now, for my part, I met  them in the lobby after the conclusion of the piece; and hang me, if I  can guess where you took your notions of the other world from. I can  assure you that this hobgoblin of yours is a deuced fine-looking fellow-  -admirably dressed. Indeed, I feel quite sure, from the cut of his  clothes, they are made by a first-rate Paris tailor--probably Blin or  Humann. He was rather too pale, certainly; but then, you know, paleness  is always looked upon as a strong proof of aristocratic descent and  distinguished breeding.” Franz smiled; for he well remembered that  Albert particularly prided himself on the entire absence of color in his  own complexion.    “Well, that tends to confirm my own ideas,” said Franz, “that the  countess’s suspicions were destitute alike of sense and reason. Did he  speak in your hearing? and did you catch any of his words?”    “I did; but they were uttered in the Romaic dialect. I knew that from  the mixture of Greek words. I don’t know whether I ever told you that  when I was at college I was rather--rather strong in Greek.”    “He spoke the Romaic language, did he?”    “I think so.”    “That settles it,” murmured Franz. “‘Tis he, past all doubt.”    “What do you say?”    “Nothing, nothing. But tell me, what were you thinking about when I came  in?”    “Oh, I was arranging a little surprise for you.”    “Indeed. Of what nature?”    “Why, you know it is quite impossible to procure a carriage.”    “Certainly; and I also know that we have done all that human means  afforded to endeavor to get one.”    
and what were those events of his early life--a life as marvellous as  unknown--that have tinctured his succeeding years with so dark and  gloomy a misanthropy? Certainly these are questions that, in your place,  I should like to have answered.”    “My dear Franz,” replied Albert, “when, upon receipt of my letter, you  found the necessity of asking the count’s assistance, you promptly went  to him, saying, ‘My friend Albert de Morcerf is in danger; help me to  deliver him.’ Was not that nearly what you said?”      “It was.”    “Well, then, did he ask you, ‘Who is M. Albert de Morcerf? how does he  come by his name--his fortune? what are his means of existence? what is  his birthplace? of what country is he a native?’ Tell me, did he put all  these questions to you?”    “I confess he asked me none.”    “No; he merely came and freed me from the hands of Signor Vampa, where,  I can assure you, in spite of all my outward appearance of ease and  unconcern, I did not very particularly care to remain. Now, then, Franz,  when, for services so promptly and unhesitatingly rendered, he but asks  me in return to do for him what is done daily for any Russian prince or  Italian nobleman who may pass through Paris--merely to introduce him  into society--would you have me refuse? My good fellow, you must have  lost your senses to think it possible I could act with such cold-blooded  policy.” And this time it must be confessed that, contrary to the usual  state of affairs in discussions between the young men, the effective  arguments were all on Albert’s side.    “Well,” said Franz with a sigh, “do as you please my dear viscount, for  your arguments are beyond my powers of refutation. Still, in spite of  all, you must admit that this Count of Monte Cristo is a most singular  personage.”    “He is a philanthropist,” answered the other; “and no doubt his motive  in visiting Paris is to compete for the Monthyon prize, given, as you  are aware, to whoever shall be proved to have most materially advanced  the interests of virtue and humanity. If my vote and interest can obtain 
“No excellency, I do not recollect telling you that.”    “I thought you did; I must have been mistaken.”    “No, you were not, for it was in reality a little boy. But your  excellency wished to know two things; what was the second?”    “The second was the crime of which you were accused when you asked for a  confessor, and the Abbé Busoni came to visit you at your request in the  prison at Nîmes.”    “The story will be very long, excellency.”    “What matter? you know I take but little sleep, and I do not suppose you  are very much inclined for it either.” Bertuccio bowed, and resumed his  story.    “Partly to drown the recollections of the past that haunted me, partly  to supply the wants of the poor widow, I eagerly returned to my trade of  smuggler, which had become more easy since that relaxation of the laws  which always follows a revolution. The southern districts were ill-  watched in particular, in consequence of the disturbances that were  perpetually breaking out in Avignon, Nîmes, or Uzès. We profited by this  respite on the part of the government to make friends everywhere. Since  my brother’s assassination in the streets of Nîmes, I had never entered  the town; the result was that the innkeeper with whom we were connected,  seeing that we would no longer come to him, was forced to come to us,  and had established a branch to his inn, on the road from Bellegarde to  Beaucaire, at the sign of the Pont du Gard. We had thus, at Aigues-  Mortes, Martigues, or Bouc, a dozen places where we left our goods, and  where, in case of necessity, we concealed ourselves from the gendarmes  and custom-house officers. Smuggling is a profitable trade, when a  certain degree of vigor and intelligence is employed; as for myself,  brought up in the mountains, I had a double motive for fearing the  gendarmes and custom-house officers, as my appearance before the judges  would cause an inquiry, and an inquiry always looks back into the past.  And in my past life they might find something far more grave than the  selling of smuggled cigars, or barrels of brandy without a permit. So, 
smoking his cigar at the entrance of the garden, when the count’s  carriage stopped at the gate.    Cocles opened the gate, and Baptistin, springing from the box, inquired  whether Monsieur and Madame Herbault and Monsieur Maximilian Morrel  would see his excellency the Count of Monte Cristo. “The Count of Monte  Cristo?” cried Morrel, throwing away his cigar and hastening to the  carriage; “I should think we would see him. Ah, a thousand thanks,  count, for not having forgotten your promise.” And the young officer  shook the count’s hand so warmly, that Monte Cristo could not be  mistaken as to the sincerity of his joy, and he saw that he had been  expected with impatience, and was received with pleasure. “Come, come,”  said Maximilian, “I will serve as your guide; such a man as you are  ought not to be introduced by a servant. My sister is in the garden  plucking the dead roses; my brother is reading his two papers, _la  Presse_ and _les Débats_, within six steps of her; for wherever you see  Madame Herbault, you have only to look within a circle of four yards and  you will find M. Emmanuel, and ‘reciprocally,’ as they say at the  Polytechnic School.” At the sound of their steps a young woman of twenty  to five and twenty, dressed in a silk morning gown, and busily engaged  in plucking the dead leaves off a noisette rose-tree, raised her head.  This was Julie, who had become, as the clerk of the house of Thomson &  French had predicted, Madame Emmanuel Herbault. She uttered a cry of  surprise at the sight of a stranger, and Maximilian began to laugh.  “Don’t disturb yourself, Julie,” said he. “The count has only been two  or three days in Paris, but he already knows what a fashionable woman of  the Marais is, and if he does not, you will show him.”    “Ah, monsieur,” returned Julie, “it is treason in my brother to bring  you thus, but he never has any regard for his poor sister. Penelon,  Penelon!” An old man, who was digging busily at one of the beds, stuck  his spade in the earth, and approached, cap in hand, striving to conceal 
  “Are you going?”    “Really, that is a good idea!--two hours have I been boring you to death  with my company, and then you, with the greatest politeness, ask me if I  am going. Indeed, count, you are the most polished man in the world. And  your servants, too, how very well behaved they are; there is quite a  style about them. Monsieur Baptistin especially; I could never get such  a man as that. My servants seem to imitate those you sometimes see in a  play, who, because they have only a word or two to say, aquit themselves  in the most awkward manner possible. Therefore, if you part with M.  Baptistin, give me the refusal of him.”    “By all means.”    “That is not all; give my compliments to your illustrious Luccanese,  Cavalcante of the Cavalcanti; and if by any chance he should be wishing  to establish his son, find him a wife very rich, very noble on her  mother’s side at least, and a baroness in right of her father, I will  help you in the search.”    “Ah, ha; you will do as much as that, will you?”    “Yes.”    “Well, really, nothing is certain in this world.”    “Oh, count, what a service you might render me! I should like you a  hundred times better if, by your intervention, I could manage to remain  a bachelor, even were it only for ten years.”    “Nothing is impossible,” gravely replied Monte Cristo; and taking leave  of Albert, he returned into the house, and struck the gong three times.  Bertuccio appeared. “Monsieur Bertuccio, you understand that I intend  entertaining company on Saturday at Auteuil.” Bertuccio slightly  started. “I shall require your services to see that all be properly  arranged. It is a beautiful house, or at all events may be made so.”    “There must be a good deal done before it can deserve that title, your  excellency, for the tapestried hangings are very old.”    “Let them all be taken away and changed, then, with the exception of the  sleeping-chamber which is hung with red damask; you will leave that  exactly as it is.” Bertuccio bowed. “You will not touch the garden 
privations.”    “However,” said Madame de Villefort, returning to the one idea which  incessantly occupied her mind, “perhaps it would be better to explain  this unlucky affair to M. d’Epinay, in order to give him the opportunity  of himself renouncing his claim to the hand of Mademoiselle de  Villefort.”    “Ah, that would be a great pity,” said Villefort.    “A great pity,” said Monte Cristo.    “Undoubtedly,” said Villefort, moderating the tones of his voice, “a  marriage once concerted and then broken off, throws a sort of discredit  on a young lady; then again, the old reports, which I was so anxious to  put an end to, will instantly gain ground. No, it will all go well; M.  d’Epinay, if he is an honorable man, will consider himself more than  ever pledged to Mademoiselle de Villefort, unless he were actuated by a  decided feeling of avarice, but that is impossible.”    “I agree with M. de Villefort,” said Monte Cristo, fixing his eyes on  Madame de Villefort; “and if I were sufficiently intimate with him to  allow of giving my advice, I would persuade him, since I have been told  M. d’Epinay is coming back, to settle this affair at once beyond all  possibility of revocation. I will answer for the success of a project  which will reflect so much honor on M. de Villefort.” The procureur  arose, delighted with the proposition, but his wife slightly changed  color. “Well, that is all that I wanted, and I will be guided by a  counsellor such as you are,” said he, extending his hand to Monte  Cristo. “Therefore let everyone here look upon what has passed today as  if it had not happened, and as though we had never thought of such a  thing as a change in our original plans.”    “Sir,” said the count, “the world, unjust as it is, will be pleased with  your resolution; your friends will be proud of you, and M. d’Epinay,  even if he took Mademoiselle de Villefort without any dowry, which he  will not do, would be delighted with the idea of entering a family which  could make such sacrifices in order to keep a promise and fulfil a 
today.”    “Do so.”    “I will.”      “And if you should hear of anything very scandalous----”    “I will communicate it to you.”    “You will oblige me.” Danglars rushed out of the room, and made but one  leap into his _coupé_.        Chapter 67. The Office of the King’s Attorney    Let us leave the banker driving his horses at their fullest speed, and  follow Madame Danglars in her morning excursion. We have said that at  half-past twelve o’clock Madame Danglars had ordered her horses, and had  left home in the carriage. She directed her course towards the Faubourg  Saint Germain, went down the Rue Mazarine, and stopped at the Passage du  Pont-Neuf. She descended, and went through the passage. She was very  plainly dressed, as would be the case with a woman of taste walking in  the morning. At the Rue Guénégaud she called a cab, and directed the  driver to go to the Rue de Harlay. As soon as she was seated in the  vehicle, she drew from her pocket a very thick black veil, which she  tied on to her straw bonnet. She then replaced the bonnet, and saw with  pleasure, in a little pocket-mirror, that her white complexion and  brilliant eyes were alone visible. The cab crossed the Pont-Neuf and  entered the Rue de Harlay by the Place Dauphiné; the driver was paid as  the door opened, and stepping lightly up the stairs Madame Danglars soon  reached the Salle des Pas-Perdus.    There was a great deal going on that morning, and many business-like  persons at the Palais; business-like persons pay very little attention  to women, and Madame Danglars crossed the hall without exciting any more  attention than any other woman calling upon her lawyer. There was a  great press of people in M. de Villefort’s antechamber, but Madame  Danglars had no occasion even to pronounce her name. The instant she  appeared the door-keeper rose, came to her, and asked her whether she  was not the person with whom the procureur had made an appointment; and  on her affirmative answer being given, he conducted her by a private 
Maximilian; and now are you satisfied with your betrothal?” said the  young girl sorrowfully.    “My adored Valentine, words cannot express one half of my satisfaction.”  Valentine had approached, or rather, had placed her lips so near the  fence, that they nearly touched those of Morrel, which were pressed  against the other side of the cold and inexorable barrier. “Adieu, then,  till we meet again,” said Valentine, tearing herself away. “I shall hear  from you?”    “Yes.”    “Thanks, thanks, dear love, adieu!” The sound of a kiss was heard, and  Valentine fled through the avenue. Morrel listened to catch the last  sound of her dress brushing the branches, and of her footstep on the  gravel, then raised his eyes with an ineffable smile of thankfulness to  heaven for being permitted to be thus loved, and then also disappeared.  The young man returned home and waited all the evening and all the next  day without getting any message. It was only on the following day, at  about ten o’clock in the morning, as he was starting to call on M.  Deschamps, the notary, that he received from the postman a small billet,  which he knew to be from Valentine, although he had not before seen her  writing. It was to this effect:--    “Tears, entreaties, prayers, have availed me nothing. Yesterday, for two  hours, I was at the church of Saint-Phillippe du Roule, and for two  hours I prayed most fervently. Heaven is as inflexible as man, and the  signature of the contract is fixed for this evening at nine o’clock. I  have but one promise and but one heart to give; that promise is pledged  to you, that heart is also yours. This evening, then, at a quarter to  nine at the gate.    “Your betrothed,    “Valentine de Villefort.”    “P.S.--My poor grandmother gets worse and worse; yesterday her fever  amounted to delirium; today her delirium is almost madness. You will be  very kind to me, will you not, Morrel, to make me forget my sorrow in  leaving her thus? I think it is kept a secret from grandpapa Noirtier,  that the contract is to be signed this evening.” 
  “I do not recollect it,” said Haydée.    “The noise increased; steps were heard approaching nearer and nearer;  they were descending the steps leading to the cavern. Selim made ready  his lance. Soon a figure appeared in the gray twilight at the entrance  of the cave, formed by the reflection of the few rays of daylight which  had found their way into this gloomy retreat. ‘Who are you?’ cried  Selim. ‘But whoever you may be, I charge you not to advance another  step.’--‘Long live the emperor!’ said the figure. ‘He grants a full  pardon to the Vizier Ali, and not only gives him his life, but restores  to him his fortune and his possessions.’ My mother uttered a cry of joy,  and clasped me to her bosom. ‘Stop,’ said Selim, seeing that she was  about to go out; ‘you see I have not yet received the ring,’--‘True,’  said my mother. And she fell on her knees, at the same time holding me  up towards heaven, as if she desired, while praying to God in my behalf,  to raise me actually to his presence.”    And for the second time Haydée stopped, overcome by such violent emotion  that the perspiration stood upon her pale brow, and her stifled voice  seemed hardly able to find utterance, so parched and dry were her throat  and lips. Monte Cristo poured a little iced water into a glass, and  presented it to her, saying with a mildness in which was also a shade of  command,--“Courage.”      Haydée dried her eyes, and continued: “By this time our eyes, habituated  to the darkness, had recognized the messenger of the pasha,--it was a  friend. Selim had also recognized him, but the brave young man only  acknowledged one duty, which was to obey. ‘In whose name do you come?’  said he to him. ‘I come in the name of our master, Ali Tepelini.’--‘If  you come from Ali himself,’ said Selim, ‘you know what you were charged  to remit to me?’--‘Yes,’ said the messenger, ‘and I bring you his ring.’  At these words he raised his hand above his head, to show the token; but  it was too far off, and there was not light enough to enable Selim, 
“That’s well,” said Monte Cristo; “I remain here a day or two--arrange  accordingly.” As Bertuccio was leaving the room to give the requisite  orders, Baptistin opened the door: he held a letter on a silver waiter.    “What are you doing here?” asked the count, seeing him covered with  dust; “I did not send for you, I think?”    Baptistin, without answering, approached the count, and presented the  letter. “Important and urgent,” said he. The count opened the letter,  and read:--    “M. de Monte Cristo is apprised that this night a man will enter his  house in the Champs-Élysées with the intention of carrying off some  papers supposed to be in the secretary desk in the dressing-room. The  count’s well-known courage will render unnecessary the aid of the  police, whose interference might seriously affect him who sends this  advice. The count, by any opening from the bedroom, or by concealing  himself in the dressing-room, would be able to defend his property  himself. Many attendants or apparent precautions would prevent the  villain from the attempt, and M. de Monte Cristo would lose the  opportunity of discovering an enemy whom chance has revealed to him who  now sends this warning to the count,--a warning he might not be able to  send another time, if this first attempt should fail and another be  made.”    The count’s first idea was that this was an artifice--a gross deception,  to draw his attention from a minor danger in order to expose him to a  greater. He was on the point of sending the letter to the commissary of  police, notwithstanding the advice of his anonymous friend, or perhaps  because of that advice, when suddenly the idea occurred to him that it  might be some personal enemy, whom he alone should recognize and over  whom, if such were the case, he alone would gain any advantage, as  Fiesco [*] had done over the Moor who would have killed him. We know the  Count’s vigorous and daring mind, denying anything to be impossible,  with that energy which marks the great man. From his past life, from his  resolution to shrink from nothing, the count had acquired an  inconceivable relish for the contests in which he had engaged, sometimes 
  “Fernand, do you mean?” replied Monte Cristo, with bitter irony; “since  we are recalling names, let us remember them all.” Monte Cristo had  pronounced the name of Fernand with such an expression of hatred that  Mercédès felt a thrill of horror run through every vein. “You see,  Edmond, I am not mistaken, and have cause to say, ‘Spare my son!’”    “And who told you, madame, that I have any hostile intentions against  your son?”    “No one, in truth; but a mother has twofold sight. I guessed all; I  followed him this evening to the Opera, and, concealed in a parquet box,  have seen all.”    “If you have seen all, madame, you know that the son of Fernand has  publicly insulted me,” said Monte Cristo with awful calmness.    “Oh, for pity’s sake!”    “You have seen that he would have thrown his glove in my face if Morrel,  one of my friends, had not stopped him.”    “Listen to me, my son has also guessed who you are,--he attributes his  father’s misfortunes to you.”    “Madame, you are mistaken, they are not misfortunes,--it is a  punishment. It is not I who strike M. de Morcerf; it is Providence which  punishes him.”    “And why do you represent Providence?” cried Mercédès. “Why do you  remember when it forgets? What are Yanina and its vizier to you, Edmond?  What injury has Fernand Mondego done you in betraying Ali Tepelini?”    “Ah, madame,” replied Monte Cristo, “all this is an affair between the  French captain and the daughter of Vasiliki. It does not concern me, you  are right; and if I have sworn to revenge myself, it is not on the  French captain, or the Count of Morcerf, but on the fisherman Fernand,  the husband of Mercédès the Catalane.”    “Ah, sir!” cried the countess, “how terrible a vengeance for a fault  which fatality made me commit!--for I am the only culprit, Edmond, and  if you owe revenge to anyone, it is to me, who had not fortitude to bear  your absence and my solitude.”      “But,” exclaimed Monte Cristo, “why was I absent? And why were you 
  “In that case,” said Andrea, “everything is all right, excepting your  refusal, which quite grieves me.”    “You must attribute it only to natural scruples under similar  circumstances.”    “Well,” said Andrea, “let it be as you wish. This evening, then, at nine  o’clock.”    “Adieu till then.” Notwithstanding a slight resistance on the part of  Monte Cristo, whose lips turned pale, but who preserved his ceremonious  smile, Andrea seized the count’s hand, pressed it, jumped into his  phaeton, and disappeared.    The four or five remaining hours before nine o’clock arrived, Andrea  employed in riding, paying visits,--designed to induce those of whom he  had spoken to appear at the banker’s in their gayest equipages,--  dazzling them by promises of shares in schemes which have since turned  every brain, and in which Danglars was just taking the initiative. In  fact, at half-past eight in the evening the grand salon, the gallery  adjoining, and the three other drawing-rooms on the same floor, were  filled with a perfumed crowd, who sympathized but little in the event,  but who all participated in that love of being present wherever there is  anything fresh to be seen. An Academician would say that the  entertainments of the fashionable world are collections of flowers which  attract inconstant butterflies, famished bees, and buzzing drones.      No one could deny that the rooms were splendidly illuminated; the light  streamed forth on the gilt mouldings and the silk hangings; and all the  bad taste of decorations, which had only their richness to boast of,  shone in its splendor. Mademoiselle Eugénie was dressed with elegant  simplicity in a figured white silk dress, and a white rose half  concealed in her jet black hair was her only ornament, unaccompanied by  a single jewel. Her eyes, however, betrayed that perfect confidence  which contradicted the girlish simplicity of this modest attire. Madame  Danglars was chatting at a short distance with Debray, Beauchamp, and  Château-Renaud.    Debray was admitted to the house for this grand ceremony, but on the  same plane with everyone else, and without any particular privilege. M.  Danglars, surrounded by deputies and men connected with the revenue, was 
letter yesterday?”      “Yes.”    “I have brought my receipt.”    “My dear M. de Boville, your widows and orphans must oblige me by  waiting twenty-four hours, since M. de Monte Cristo whom you just saw  leaving here--you did see him, I think?”    “Yes; well?”    “Well, M. de Monte Cristo has just carried off their five millions.”    “How so?”    “The count has an unlimited credit upon me; a credit opened by Thomson &  French, of Rome; he came to demand five millions at once, which I paid  him with checks on the bank. My funds are deposited there, and you can  understand that if I draw out ten millions on the same day it will  appear rather strange to the governor. Two days will be a different  thing,” said Danglars, smiling.    “Come,” said Boville, with a tone of entire incredulity, “five millions  to that gentleman who just left, and who bowed to me as though he knew  me?”    “Perhaps he knows you, though you do not know him; M. de Monte Cristo  knows everybody.”    “Five millions!”    “Here is his receipt. Believe your own eyes.” M. de Boville took the  paper Danglars presented him, and read:--    “Received of Baron Danglars the sum of five million one hundred thousand  francs, to be repaid on demand by the house of Thomson & French of  Rome.”    “It is really true,” said M. de Boville.    “Do you know the house of Thomson & French?”    “Yes, I once had business to transact with it to the amount of 200,000  francs; but since then I have not heard it mentioned.”    “It is one of the best houses in Europe,” said Danglars, carelessly  throwing down the receipt on his desk.    “And he had five millions in your hands alone! Why, this Count of Monte  Cristo must be a nabob?”    “Indeed I do not know what he is; he has three unlimited credits--one on  me, one on Rothschild, one on Lafitte; and, you see,” he added  carelessly, “he has given me the preference, by leaving a balance of 
by the side of its mother. He picked up the paper, and, recognizing his  wife’s writing, ran his eyes rapidly over its contents; it ran as  follows:--    “You know that I was a good mother, since it was for my son’s sake I  became criminal. A good mother cannot depart without her son.”      Villefort could not believe his eyes,--he could not believe his reason;  he dragged himself towards the child’s body, and examined it as a  lioness contemplates its dead cub. Then a piercing cry escaped from his  breast, and he cried,    “Still the hand of God.”    The presence of the two victims alarmed him; he could not bear solitude  shared only by two corpses. Until then he had been sustained by rage, by  his strength of mind, by despair, by the supreme agony which led the  Titans to scale the heavens, and Ajax to defy the gods. He now arose,  his head bowed beneath the weight of grief, and, shaking his damp,  dishevelled hair, he who had never felt compassion for anyone determined  to seek his father, that he might have someone to whom he could relate  his misfortunes,--some one by whose side he might weep.    He descended the little staircase with which we are acquainted, and  entered Noirtier’s room. The old man appeared to be listening  attentively and as affectionately as his infirmities would allow to the  Abbé Busoni, who looked cold and calm, as usual. Villefort, perceiving  the abbé, passed his hand across his brow.    He recollected the call he had made upon him after the dinner at  Auteuil, and then the visit the abbé had himself paid to his house on  the day of Valentine’s death. “You here, sir!” he exclaimed; “do you,  then, never appear but to act as an escort to death?”    Busoni turned around, and, perceiving the excitement depicted on the  magistrate’s face, the savage lustre of his eyes, he understood that the  revelation had been made at the assizes; but beyond this he was  ignorant.    “I came to pray over the body of your daughter.”    “And now why are you here?” 
