21. The Abbe Scarron.  22. Saint Denis.  23. One of the Forty Methods of Escape of the Duc de Beaufort.  24. The timely Arrival of D’Artagnan in Paris.  25. An Adventure on the High Road.  26. The Rencontre.  27. The four old Friends prepare to meet again.  28. The Place Royale.  29. The Ferry across the Oise.  30. Skirmishing.  31. The Monk.  32. The Absolution.  33. Grimaud Speaks.  34. On the Eve of Battle.  35. A Dinner in the Old Style.  36. A Letter from Charles the First.  37. Cromwell’s Letter.  38. Henrietta Maria and Mazarin.  39. How, sometimes, the Unhappy mistake Chance for Providence.  40. Uncle and Nephew.  41. Paternal Affection.  42. Another Queen in Want of Help.  43. In which it is proved that first Impulses are oftentimes the  best.  44. Te Deum for the Victory of Lens.  45. The Beggar of St. Eustache.  46. The Tower of St. Jacques de la Boucherie.  47. The Riot.  48. The Riot becomes a Revolution.  49. Misfortune refreshes the Memory.  50. The Interview.  51. The Flight.  52. The Carriage of Monsieur le Coadjuteur.  53. How D’Artagnan and Porthos earned by selling Straw.  54. In which we hear Tidings of Aramis.  55. The Scotchman.  56. The Avenger.  57. Oliver Cromwell.  58. Jesus Seigneur. 
   “Oh, madame! you are the queen!”    “Queen, forsooth! when I am at the mercy of every scribbler in the  Palais Royal who covers waste paper with nonsense, or of every country  squire in the kingdom.”    “Nevertheless, you have still the power of banishing from your presence  those whom you do not like!”    “That is to say, whom you do not like,” returned the queen.    “I! persons whom I do not like!”    “Yes, indeed. Who sent away Madame de Chevreuse after she had been  persecuted twelve years under the last reign?”    “A woman of intrigue, who wanted to keep up against me the spirit of  cabal she had raised against M. de Richelieu.”    “Who dismissed Madame de Hautefort, that friend so loyal that she  refused the favor of the king that she might remain in mine?”    “A prude, who told you every night, as she undressed you, that it was a  sin to love a priest, just as if one were a priest because one happens  to be a cardinal.”    “Who ordered Monsieur de Beaufort to be arrested?”    “An incendiary the burden of whose song was his intention to assassinate  me.”    “You see, cardinal,” replied the queen, “that your enemies are mine.”    “That is not enough madame, it is necessary that your friends should be  also mine.”    “My friends, monsieur?” The queen shook her head. “Alas, I have them no  longer!”    “How is it that you have no friends in your prosperity when you had many  in adversity?”    “It is because in my prosperity I forgot those old friends, monsieur;  because I have acted like Queen Marie de Medicis, who, returning from  her first exile, treated with contempt all those who had suffered for  her and, being proscribed a second time, died at Cologne abandoned by  every one, even by her own son.”    “Well, let us see,” said Mazarin; “isn’t there still time to repair the  evil? Search among your friends, your oldest friends.”    “What do you mean, monsieur?”  
traveling quietly with my own servant, I have not the same reasons as  you have to conceal my name.”    “Enough! enough! what is your name?”    “I shall tell you my name in order that you may know where to find me,  my lord, or my prince, as it may suit you best to be called,” said our  Gascon, who did not choose to seem to yield to a threat. “Do you know  Monsieur d’Artagnan?”    “Lieutenant in the king’s musketeers?” said the voice; “you are Monsieur  d’Artagnan?”    “I am.”    “Then you came here to defend him?”    “Him? whom?”    “The man we are seeking.”    “It seems,” said D’Artagnan, “that whilst I thought I was coming to  Noisy I have entered, without suspecting it, into the kingdom of  mysteries.”    “Come,” replied the same lofty tone, “answer! Are you waiting for him  underneath these windows? Did you come to Noisy to defend him?”    “I am waiting for no one,” replied D’Artagnan, who was beginning to be  angry. “I propose to defend no one but myself, and I shall defend myself  vigorously, I give you warning.”    “Very well,” said the voice; “go away from here and leave the place to  us.”    “Go away from here!” said D’Artagnan, whose purposes were in conflict  with that order, “that is not so easy, since I am on the point of  falling, and my horse, too, through fatigue; unless, indeed, you are  disposed to offer me a supper and a bed in the neighborhood.”    “Rascal!”    “Eh! monsieur!” said D’Artagnan, “I beg you will have a care what you  say; for if you utter another word like that, be you marquis, duke,  prince or king, I will thrust it down your throat! do you hear?”    “Well, well,” rejoined the leader, “there’s no doubt ‘tis a Gascon who  is speaking, and therefore not the man we are looking for. Our blow has  failed for to-night; let us withdraw. We shall meet again, Master  d’Artagnan,” continued the leader, raising his voice.    “Yes, but never with the same advantages,” said D’Artagnan, in a tone of 
   “Make sure of it, and if they want it, have them burnished up. Which is  my best cavalry horse?”    “Vulcan.”    “And the best hack?”    “Bayard.”    “What horse dost thou choose for thyself?”    “I like Rustaud, my lord; a good animal, whose paces suit me.”    “Strong, thinkest thou?”    “Half Norman, half Mecklenburger; will go night and day.”    “That will do for us. See to these horses. Polish up or make some one  else polish my arms. Then take pistols with thee and a hunting-knife.”    “Are we then going to travel, my lord?” asked Mousqueton, rather uneasy.    “Something better still, Mouston.”    “An expedition, sir?” asked the steward, whose roses began to change  into lilies.    “We are going to return to the service, Mouston,” replied Porthos, still  trying to restore his mustache to the military curl it had long lost.    “Into the service--the king’s service?” Mousqueton trembled; even his  fat, smooth cheeks shook as he spoke, and he looked at D’Artagnan with  an air of reproach; he staggered, and his voice was almost choked.    “Yes and no. We shall serve in a campaign, seek out all sorts of  adventures--return, in short, to our former life.”    These last words fell on Mousqueton like a thunderbolt. It was those  very terrible old days that made the present so excessively delightful,  and the blow was so great he rushed out, overcome, and forgot to shut  the door.    The two friends remained alone to speak of the future and to build  castles in the air. The good wine which Mousqueton had placed before  them traced out in glowing drops to D’Artagnan a fine perspective,  shining with quadruples and pistoles, and showed to Porthos a blue  ribbon and a ducal mantle; they were, in fact, asleep on the table when  the servants came to light them to their bed.    Mousqueton was, however, somewhat consoled by D’Artagnan, who the next  day told him that in all probability war would always be carried on in  the heart of Paris and within reach of the Chateau du Vallon, which was 
  “Those are all?” asked Grimaud.    “All now,” replied La Ramee.    “Good,” answered Grimaud; and he went right to the prisoner.    The duke was in the act of combing his beard, which he had allowed to  grow, as well as his hair, in order to reproach Mazarin with his  wretched appearance and condition. But having some days previously seen  from the top of the donjon Madame de Montbazon pass in her carriage, and  still cherishing an affection for that beautiful woman, he did not wish  to be to her what he wished to be to Mazarin, and in the hope of seeing  her again, had asked for a leaden comb, which was allowed him. The comb  was to be a leaden one, because his beard, like that of most fair  people, was rather red; he therefore dyed it thus whilst combing it.    As Grimaud entered he saw this comb on the tea-table; he took it up, and  as he took it he made a low bow.    The duke looked at this strange figure with surprise. The figure put the  comb in its pocket.    “Ho! hey! what’s that?” cried the duke. “Who is this creature?”    Grimaud did not answer, but bowed a second time.    “Art thou dumb?” cried the duke.    Grimaud made a sign that he was not.    “What art thou, then? Answer! I command thee!” said the duke.    “A keeper,” replied Grimaud.    “A keeper!” reiterated the duke; “there was nothing wanting in my  collection, except this gallows-bird. Halloo! La Ramee! some one!”    La Ramee ran in haste to obey the call.    “Who is this wretch who takes my comb and puts it in his pocket?” asked  the duke.    “One of your guards, my prince; a man of talent and merit, whom you will  like, as I and Monsieur de Chavigny do, I am sure.”    “Why does he take my comb?”    “Why do you take my lord’s comb?” asked La Ramee.    Grimaud drew the comb from his pocket and passing his fingers over the 
 “Well, then?” asked Athos, in a low tone.    “It is to be to-morrow,” said Aramis hastily.    “At what time?”    “Six o’clock.”    “Where?”    “At Saint Mande.”    “Who told you?”    “The Count de Rochefort.”    Some one drew near.    “And then philosophic ideas are wholly wanting in Voiture’s works, but I  am of the same opinion as the coadjutor--he is a poet, a true poet.”  Aramis spoke so as to be heard by everybody.    “And I, too,” murmured the young lady with the velvet eyes. “I have the  misfortune also to admire his poetry exceedingly.”    “Monsieur Scarron, do me the honor,” said Raoul, blushing, “to tell me  the name of that young lady whose opinion seems so different from that  of others of the company.”    “Ah! my young vicomte,” replied Scarron, “I suppose you wish to propose  to her an alliance offensive and defensive.”    Raoul blushed again.    “You asked the name of that young lady. She is called the fair Indian.”    “Excuse me, sir,” returned Raoul, blushing still more deeply, “I know no  more than I did before. Alas! I am from the country.”    “Which means that you know very little about the nonsense which here  flows down our streets. So much the better, young man! so much the  better! Don’t try to understand it--you will only lose your time.”    “You forgive me, then, sir,” said Raoul, “and you will deign to tell me  who is the person that you call the young Indian?”    “Certainly; one of the most charming persons that lives--Mademoiselle  Frances d’Aubigne.”    “Does she belong to the family of the celebrated Agrippa, the friend of  Henry IV.?”    “His granddaughter. She comes from Martinique, so I call her the  beautiful Indian.”    Raoul looked surprised and his eyes met those of the young lady, who  smiled.    The company went on speaking of the poet Voiture.    “Monsieur,” said Mademoiselle d’Aubigne to Scarron, as if she wished to  join in the conversation he was engaged in with Raoul, “do you not 
“Nonsense!” cried D’Artagnan, “they’ll suppose us to be stronger than  themselves, as we’re in pursuit; they’ll be afraid and will disperse.”    “Certainly,” remarked Porthos.    “Ah! do you see?” cried the lieutenant.    “The lights again! this time I, too, saw them,” said Porthos.    “On! on! forward! forward!” cried D’Artagnan, in his stentorian voice;  “we shall laugh over all this in five minutes.”    And they darted on anew. The horses, excited by pain and emulation,  raced over the dark road, in the midst of which was now seen a moving  mass, denser and more obscure than the rest of the horizon.          26. The Rencontre.      They rode on in this way for ten minutes. Suddenly two dark forms seemed  to separate from the mass, advanced, grew in size, and as they loomed up  larger and larger, assumed the appearance of two horsemen.    “Aha!” cried D’Artagnan, “they’re coming toward us.”    “So much the worse for them,” said Porthos.    “Who goes there?” cried a hoarse voice.    The three horsemen made no reply, stopped not, and all that was heard  was the noise of swords drawn from the scabbards and the cocking of the  pistols with which the two phantoms were armed.    “Bridle in mouth!” said D’Artagnan.    Porthos understood him and he and the lieutenant each drew with the left  hand a pistol from their bolsters and cocked it in their turn.    “Who goes there?” was asked a second time. “Not a step forward, or  you’re dead men.”    “Stuff!” cried Porthos, almost choked with dust and chewing his bridle  as a horse chews his bit. “Stuff and nonsense; we have seen plenty of  dead men in our time.”    Hearing these words, the two shadows blockaded the road and by the light  of the stars might be seen the shining of their arms.    “Back!” shouted D’Artagnan, “or you are dead!”    Two shots were the reply to this threat; but the assailants attacked  their foes with such velocity that in a moment they were upon them; a 
 31. The Monk.      Two men lay prone upon the ground, one bathed in blood and motionless,  with his face toward the earth; this one was dead. The other leaned  against a tree, supported there by the two valets, and was praying  fervently, with clasped hands and eyes raised to Heaven. He had received  a ball in his thigh, which had broken the bone. The young men first  approached the dead man.    “He is a priest,” said Bragelonne, “he has worn the tonsure. Oh, the  scoundrels! to lift their hands against a minister of God.”    “Come here, sir,” said Urban, an old soldier who had served under the  cardinal duke in all his campaigns; “come here, there is nothing to be  done with him, whilst we may perhaps be able to save the other.”    The wounded man smiled sadly. “Save me! Oh, no!” said he, “but help me  to die, if you can.”    “Are you a priest?” asked Raoul.    “No sir.”    “I ask, as your unfortunate companion appeared to me to belong to the  church.”    “He is the curate of Bethune, sir, and was carrying the holy vessels  belonging to his church, and the treasure of the chapter, to a safe  place, the prince having abandoned our town yesterday; and as it was  known that bands of the enemy were prowling about the country, no one  dared to accompany the good man, so I offered to do so.    “And, sir,” continued the wounded man, “I suffer much and would like, if  possible, to be carried to some house.”    “Where you can be relieved?” asked De Guiche.    “No, where I can confess.”    “But perhaps you are not so dangerously wounded as you think,” said  Raoul.    “Sir,” replied the wounded man, “believe me, there is no time to lose;  the ball has broken the thigh bone and entered the intestines.”    “Are you a surgeon?” asked De Guiche.    “No, but I know a little about wounds, and mine, I know, is mortal. Try,  therefore, either to carry me to some place where I may see a priest or 
knows better than we can whether it is a crime, a fault, or a  meritorious deed. I repent of it? Egad! no. Upon my honor and by the  holy cross; I only regret it because she was a woman.”    “The most satisfactory part of the matter,” said D’Artagnan, “is that  there remains no trace of it.”    “She had a son,” observed Athos.    “Oh! yes, I know that,” said D’Artagnan, “and you mentioned it to me;  but who knows what has become of him? If the serpent be dead, why not  its brood? Do you think his uncle De Winter would have brought up that  young viper? De Winter probably condemned the son as he had done the  mother.”    “Then,” said Athos, “woe to De Winter, for the child had done no harm.”    “May the devil take me, if the child be not dead,” said Porthos. “There  is so much fog in that detestable country, at least so D’Artagnan  declares.”    Just as the quaint conclusion reached by Porthos was about to bring back  hilarity to faces now more or less clouded, hasty footsteps were heard  upon the stair and some one knocked at the door.    “Come in,” cried Athos.    “Please your honors,” said the host, “a person in a great hurry wishes  to speak to one of you.”    “To which of us?” asked all the four friends.    “To him who is called the Comte de la Fere.”    “It is I,” said Athos, “and what is the name of the person?”    “Grimaud.”    “Ah!” exclaimed Athos, turning pale. “Back already! What can have  happened, then, to Bragelonne?”    “Let him enter,” cried D’Artagnan; “let him come up.”    But Grimaud had already mounted the staircase and was waiting on the  last step; so springing into the room he motioned the host to leave it.  The door being closed, the four friends waited in expectation. Grimaud’s  agitation, his pallor, the sweat which covered his face, the dust which  soiled his clothes, all indicated that he was the messenger of some  important and terrible news. 
 “Have you only two days of leave, Raoul?”    “On the contrary, sir, I have ten; nor is it to the camp I wish to go.”    “Where, then?” said Athos, smiling, “if it be not a secret. You are now  almost a man, since you have made your first passage of arms, and have  acquired the right to go where you will without consulting me.”    “Never, sir,” said Raoul, “as long as I possess the happiness of having  you for a protector, shall I deem I have the right of freeing myself  from a guardianship so valuable to me. I have, however, a wish to go and  pass a day at Blois. You look at me and you are going to laugh at me.”    “No, on the contrary, I am not inclined to laugh,” said Athos,  suppressing a sigh. “You wish to see Blois again; it is but natural.”    “Then you permit me to go, you are not angry in your heart?” exclaimed  Raoul, joyously.    “Certainly; and why should I regret what gives you pleasure?”    “Oh! how kind you are,” exclaimed the young man, pressing his guardian’s  hand; “and I can set out immediately?”    “When you like, Raoul.”    “Sir,” said Raoul, as he turned to leave the room, “I have thought of  one thing, and that is about the Duchess of Chevreuse, who was so kind  to me and to whom I owe my introduction to the prince.”    “And you ought to thank her, Raoul. Well, try the Hotel de Luynes,  Raoul, and ask if the duchess can receive you. I am glad to see you pay  attention to the usages of the world. You must take Grimaud and  Olivain.”    “Both, sir?” asked Raoul, astonished.    “Both.”    Raoul went out, and when Athos heard his young, joyous voice calling to  Grimaud and Olivain, he sighed.    “It is very soon to leave me,” he thought, “but he follows the common  custom. Nature has made us thus; she makes the young look ever forward,  not behind. He certainly likes the child, but will he love me less as 
gone out, will you not?”    “Yes, my lord,” he replied. Then, turning toward Porthos, “The devil!”  said he, “this has a bad look. I dislike these quarrels among men of the  church.”    Gondy withdrew, distributing benedictions on his way, and finding a  malicious satisfaction in causing the adherents of his foes to prostrate  themselves at his feet.    “Oh!” he murmured, as he left the threshold of the palace: “ungrateful  court! faithless court! cowardly court! I will teach you how to laugh  to-morrow--but in another manner.”    But whilst they were indulging in extravagant joy at the Palais Royal,  to increase the hilarity of the queen, Mazarin, a man of sense, and  whose fear, moreover, gave him foresight, lost no time in making idle  and dangerous jokes; he went out after the coadjutor, settled his  account, locked up his gold, and had confidential workmen to contrive  hiding places in his walls.    On his return home the coadjutor was informed that a young man had come  in after his departure and was waiting for him; he started with delight  when, on demanding the name of this young man, he learned that it was  Louvieres. He hastened to his cabinet. Broussel’s son was there, still  furious, and still bearing bloody marks of his struggle with the king’s  officers. The only precaution he had taken in coming to the  archbishopric was to leave his arquebuse in the hands of a friend.    The coadjutor went to him and held out his hand. The young man gazed at  him as if he would have read the secret of his heart.    “My dear Monsieur Louvieres,” said the coadjutor, “believe me, I am  truly concerned for the misfortune which has happened to you.”    “Is that true, and do you speak seriously?” asked Louvieres.    “From the depth of my heart,” said Gondy.    “In that case, my lord, the time for words has passed and the hour for  action is at hand; my lord, in three days, if you wish it, my father  will be out of prison and in six months you may be cardinal.”    The coadjutor started. 
 The queen had passed the night in lonely conference with the prince, who  had entered the oratory at midnight and did not leave till five o’clock  in the morning.    At five o’clock Anne went to the cardinal’s room. If she had not yet  taken any repose, he at least was already up. Six days had already  passed out of the ten he had asked from Mordaunt; he was therefore  occupied in revising his reply to Cromwell, when some one knocked gently  at the door of communication with the queen’s apartments. Anne of  Austria alone was permitted to enter by that door. The cardinal  therefore rose to open it.    The queen was in a morning gown, but it became her still; for, like  Diana of Poictiers and Ninon, Anne of Austria enjoyed the privilege of  remaining ever beautiful; nevertheless, this morning she looked  handsomer than usual, for her eyes had all the sparkle inward  satisfaction adds to expression.    “What is the matter, madame?” said Mazarin, uneasily. “You seem secretly  elated.”    “Yes, Giulio,” she said, “proud and happy; for I have found the means of  strangling this hydra.”    “You are a great politician, my queen,” said Mazarin; “let us hear the  means.” And he hid what he had written by sliding the letter under a  folio of blank paper.    “You know,” said the queen, “that they want to take the king away from  me?”    “Alas! yes, and to hang me.”    “They shall not have the king.”    “Nor hang me.”    “Listen. I want to carry off my son from them, with yourself. I wish  that this event, which on the day it is known will completely change the  aspect of affairs, should be accomplished without the knowledge of any  others but yourself, myself, and a third person.”    “And who is this third person?”    “Monsieur le Prince.”    “He has come, then, as they told me?”    “Last evening.”    “And you have seen him?”    “He has just left me.”    “And will he aid this project?” 
received.    D’Artagnan mounted the box, having a pair of pistols in his belt, a  musket under his feet and a naked sword behind him.    The queen appeared, and was followed by the king and the Duke d’Anjou,  his brother.    “Monsieur the coadjutor’s carriage!” she exclaimed, falling back.    “Yes, madame,” said D’Artagnan; “but get in fearlessly, for I myself  will drive you.”    The queen uttered a cry of surprise and entered the carriage, and the  king and monsieur took their places at her side.    “Come, Laporte,” said the queen.    “How, madame!” said the valet, “in the same carriage as your majesties?”    “It is not a matter of royal etiquette this evening, but of the king’s  safety. Get in, Laporte.”    Laporte obeyed.    “Pull down the blinds,” said D’Artagnan.    “But will that not excite suspicion, sir?” asked the queen.    “Your majesty’s mind may be quite at ease,” replied the officer; “I have  my answer ready.”    The blinds were pulled down and they started at a gallop by the Rue  Richelieu. On reaching the gate the captain of the post advanced at the  head of a dozen men, holding a lantern in his hand.    D’Artagnan signed to them to draw near.    “Do you recognize the carriage?” he asked the sergeant.    “No,” replied the latter.    “Look at the arms.”    The sergeant put the lantern near the panel.    “They are those of monsieur le coadjuteur,” he said.    “Hush; he is enjoying a ride with Madame de Guemenee.”    The sergeant began to laugh.    “Open the gate,” he cried. “I know who it is!” Then putting his face to  the lowered blinds, he said:    “I wish you joy, my lord!”    “Impudent fellow!” cried D’Artagnan, “you will get me turned off.”    The gate groaned on its hinges, and D’Artagnan, seeing the way clear,  whipped his horses, who started at a canter, and five minutes later they  had rejoined the cardinal.    
 “Think of my mother!” shouted Mordaunt, as his horse plunged and darted  off at full gallop.    “Wretch!” exclaimed Aramis, raising his pistol as he passed by him; but  the powder flashed in the pan and it did not go off.    At this moment the whole regiment came up and they fell upon the few men  who had held out, surrounding the two Frenchmen. Athos, after making  sure that Lord Winter was really dead, let fall the corpse and said:    “Come, Aramis, now for the honor of France!” and the two Englishmen who  were nearest to them fell, mortally wounded.    At the same moment a fearful “hurrah!” rent the air and thirty blades  glittered about their heads.    Suddenly a man sprang out of the English ranks, fell upon Athos, twined  arms of steel around him, and tearing his sword from him, said in his  ear:    “Silence! yield--you yield to me, do you not?”    A giant had seized also Aramis’s two wrists, who struggled in vain to  release himself from this formidable grasp.    “D’Art----” exclaimed Athos, whilst the Gascon covered his mouth with  his hand.    “I am your prisoner,” said Aramis, giving up his sword to Porthos.    “Fire, fire!” cried Mordaunt, returning to the group surrounding the two  friends.    “And wherefore fire?” said the colonel; “every one has yielded.”    “It is the son of Milady,” said Athos to D’Artagnan.    “I recognize him.”    “It is the monk,” whispered Porthos to Aramis.    “I know it.”    And now the ranks began to open. D’Artagnan held the bridle of Athos’s  horse and Porthos that of Aramis. Both of them attempted to lead his  prisoner off the battle-field.    This movement revealed the spot where Winter’s body had fallen. Mordaunt  had found it out and was gazing on his dead relative with an expression  of malignant hatred.    Athos, though now cool and collected, put his hand to his belt, where  his loaded pistols yet remained.    “What are you about?” said D’Artagnan.    
him, smiling.    Parry bent over his master’s hand and kissed it respectfully.    “I’ve a great desire to drink the king’s health,” said Athos.    “Let me propose it, then,” said D’Artagnan.    “Do,” said Aramis.    Porthos looked at D’Artagnan, quite amazed at the resources with which  his companion’s Gascon sharpness continually supplied him. D’Artagnan  took up his camp tin cup, filled it with wine and arose.    “Gentlemen,” said he, “let us drink to him who presides at the repast.  Here’s to our colonel, and let him know that we are always at his  commands as far as London and farther.”    And as D’Artagnan, as he spoke, looked at Harrison, the colonel imagined  the toast was for himself. He arose and bowed to the four friends, whose  eyes were fixed on Charles, while Harrison emptied his glass without the  slightest misgiving.    The king, in return, looked at the four gentlemen and drank with a smile  full of nobility and gratitude.    “Come, gentlemen,” cried Harrison, regardless of his illustrious  captive, “let us be off.”    “Where do we sleep, colonel?”    “At Thirsk,” replied Harrison.    “Parry,” said the king, rising too, “my horse; I desire to go to  Thirsk.”    “Egad!” said D’Artagnan to Athos, “your king has thoroughly taken me,  and I am quite at his service.”    “If what you say is sincere,” replied Athos, “he will never reach  London.”    “How so?”    “Because before then we shall have carried him off.”    “Well, this time, Athos,” said D’Artagnan, “upon my word, you are mad.”    “Have you some plan in your head then?” asked Aramis.    “Ay!” said Porthos, “the thing would not be impossible with a good  plan.”    “I have none,” said Athos; “but D’Artagnan will discover one.”    D’Artagnan shrugged his shoulders and they proceeded.          61. D’Artagnan hits on a Plan.      As night closed in they arrived at Thirsk. The four friends appeared to  be entire strangers to one another and indifferent to the precautions 
   Next moment D’Artagnan entered.    “Empty your pockets,” said he; “I want a hundred pounds, and as for my  own----” and he emptied them inside out.    The sum was collected in a minute. D’Artagnan ran out and returned  directly after.    “There,” said he, “it’s done. Ough! and not without a deal of trouble,  too.”    “Has the executioner left London?” asked Athos.    “Ah, you see that plan was not sure enough; he might go out by one gate  and return by another.”    “Where is he, then?”    “In the cellar.”    “The cellar--what cellar?”    “Our landlord’s, to be sure. Mousqueton is propped against the door and  here’s the key.”    “Bravo!” said Aramis, “how did you manage it?”    “Like everything else, with money; but it cost me dear.”    “How much?” asked Athos.    “Five hundred pounds.”    “And where did you get so much money?” said Athos. “Had you, then, that  sum?”    “The queen’s famous diamond,” answered D’Artagnan, with a sigh.    “Ah, true,” said Aramis. “I recognized it on your finger.”    “You bought it back, then, from Monsieur des Essarts?” asked Porthos.    “Yes, but it was fated that I should not keep it.”    “So, then, we are all right as regards the executioner,” said Athos;  “but unfortunately every executioner has his assistant, his man, or  whatever you call him.”    “And this one had his,” said D’Artagnan; “but, as good luck would have  it, just as I thought I should have two affairs to manage, our friend  was brought home with a broken leg. In the excess of his zeal he had  accompanied the cart containing the scaffolding as far as the king’s  window, and one of the crossbeams fell on his leg and broke it.”    “Ah!” cried Aramis, “that accounts for the cry I heard.”    “Probably,” said D’Artagnan, “but as he is a thoughtful young man he  promised to send four expert workmen in his place to help those already  at the scaffold, and wrote the moment he was brought home to Master Tom 
  “There’s ten o’clock striking at Greenwich.”    Groslow, then, having given the sailor on duty an order to be on the  watch with more than usual vigilance, went down into the longboat and  soon reached Greenwich. The wind was chilly and the jetty was deserted,  as he approached it; but he had no sooner landed than he heard a noise  of horses galloping upon the paved road.    These horsemen were our friends, or rather, an avant garde, composed of  D’Artagnan and Athos. As soon as they arrived at the spot where Groslow  stood they stopped, as if guessing that he was the man they wanted.  Athos alighted and calmly opened the handkerchief tied at each corner,  whilst D’Artagnan, ever cautious, remained on horseback, one hand upon  his pistol, leaning forward watchfully.    On seeing the appointed signal, Groslow, who had at first crept behind  one of the cannons planted on that spot, walked straight up to the  gentlemen. He was so well wrapped up in his cloak that it would have  been impossible to see his face even if the night had not been so dark  as to render precaution superfluous; nevertheless, the keen glance of  Athos perceived at once it was not Rogers who stood before them.    “What do you want with us?” he asked of Groslow.    “I wish to inform you, my lord,” replied Groslow, with an Irish accent,  feigned of course, “that if you are looking for Captain Rogers you will  not find him. He fell down this morning and broke his leg. But I’m his  cousin; he told me everything and desired me to watch instead of him,  and in his place to conduct, wherever they wished to go, the gentlemen  who should bring me a handkerchief tied at each corner, like that one  which you hold and one which I have in my pocket.”    And he drew out the handkerchief.    “Was that all he said?” inquired Athos.    “No, my lord; he said you had engaged to pay seventy pounds if I landed  you safe and sound at Boulogne or any other port you choose in France.”    “What do you think of all this?” said Athos, in a low tone to 
   “Re-enter Paris, if you will let us, my good Planchet.”    “Let you, sir? Now, as ever, I am nothing but your servant.” Then  turning to his men:    “Allow these gentlemen to pass,” he said; “they are friends of the Duc  de Beaufort.”    “Long live the Duc de Beaufort!” cried the sentinels.    The sergeant drew near to Planchet.    “What! without passports?” he murmured.    “Without passports,” said Planchet.    “Take notice, captain,” he continued, giving Planchet his expected  title, “take notice that one of the three men who just now went out from  here told me privately to distrust these gentlemen.”    “And I,” said Planchet, with dignity, “I know them and I answer for  them.”    As he said this, he pressed Grimaud’s hand, who seemed honored by the  distinction.    “Farewell till we meet again,” said Aramis, as they took leave of  Planchet; “if anything happens to us we shall blame you for it.”    “Sir,” said Planchet, “I am in all things at your service.”    “That fellow is no fool,” said Aramis, as he got on his horse.    “How should he be?” replied Athos, whilst mounting also, “seeing he was  used so long to brush your hats.”          76. The Ambassadors.      The two friends rode rapidly down the declivity of the Faubourg, but on  arriving at the bottom were surprised to find that the streets of Paris  had become rivers, and the open places lakes; after the great rains  which fell in January the Seine had overflowed its banks and the river  inundated half the capital. The two gentlemen were obliged, therefore,  to get off their horses and take a boat; and in that strange manner they  approached the Louvre.    Night had closed in, and Paris, seen thus, by the light of lanterns  flickering on the pools of water, crowded with ferry-boats of every  kind, including those that glittered with the armed patrols, with the  watchword, passing from post to post--Paris presented such an aspect as  to strongly seize the senses of Aramis, a man most susceptible to 
“Yes, count, and charged with a commission for which I beg of you to  accept my excuses.”    “What is it?”    “Be so good as to give me up your sword, count.”    Athos smiled and opened the window.    “Aramis!” he cried.    A gentleman turned around. Athos fancied he had seen him among the  crowd. It was Aramis. He bowed with great friendship to the count.    “Aramis,” cried Athos, “I am arrested.”    “Good,” replied Aramis, calmly.    “Sir,” said Athos, turning to Comminges and giving him politely his  sword by the hilt, “here is my sword; have the kindness to keep it  safely for me until I quit my prison. I prize it--it was given to my  ancestor by King Francis I. In his time they armed gentlemen, not  disarmed them. Now, whither do you conduct me?”    “Into my room first,” replied Comminges; “the queen will ultimately  decide your place of domicile.”    Athos followed Comminges without saying a single word.          81. Cardinal Mazarin as King.      The arrest produced no sensation, indeed was almost unknown, and  scarcely interrupted the course of events. To the deputation it was  formally announced that the queen would receive it.    Accordingly, it was admitted to the presence of Anne, who, silent and  lofty as ever, listened to the speeches and complaints of the deputies;  but when they had finished their harangues not one of them could say, so  calm remained her face, whether or no she had heard them.    On the other hand, Mazarin, present at that audience, heard very well  what those deputies demanded. It was purely and simply his removal, in  terms clear and precise.    The discourse being finished, the queen remained silent.    “Gentlemen,” said Mazarin, “I join with you in supplicating the queen to  put an end to the miseries of her subjects. I have done all in my power  to ameliorate them and yet the belief of the public, you say, is that  they proceed from me, an unhappy foreigner, who has been unable to 
   “Yes.”    “Without accident?”    “Perfectly safe and sound.”    “Porthos, whilst I get up, watch the cardinal. No, I don’t want your  help, watch the cardinal.”    “I am watching,” said Porthos. “Well?”    “You are right; it is more difficult than I thought. Lend me your  back--but don’t let the cardinal go.”    Porthos lent him his back and D’Artagnan was soon on the summit of the  wall, where he seated himself.    Mazarin pretended to laugh.    “Are you there?” asked Porthos.    “Yes, my friend; and now----”    “Now, what?” asked Porthos.    “Now give me the cardinal up here; if he makes any noise stifle him.”    Mazarin wished to call out, but Porthos held him tight and passed him to  D’Artagnan, who seized him by the neck and made him sit down by him;  then in a menacing tone, he said:    “Sir! jump directly down, close to Monsieur de la Fere, or, on the honor  of a gentleman, I’ll kill you!”    “Monsieur, monsieur,” cried Mazarin, “you are breaking your word to me!”    “I--did I promise you anything, my lord?”    Mazarin groaned.    “You are free,” he said, “through me; your liberty was my ransom.”    “Agreed; but the ransom of that immense treasure buried under the  gallery, to which one descends on pushing a spring hidden in the wall,  which causes a tub to turn, revealing a staircase--must not one speak of  that a little, my lord?”    “Diavolo!” cried Mazarin, almost choked, and clasping his hands; “I am a  lost and ruined man!”    But without listening to his protestations of alarm, D’Artagnan slipped  him gently down into the arms of Athos, who stood immovable at the  bottom of the wall.    Porthos next made an effort which shook the solid wall, and by the aid  of his friend’s hand gained the summit.    “I didn’t understand it all,” he said, “but I understand now; how droll  it is!”    “You think so? so much the better; but that it may prove laughter-worthy 
