Chapter XIX. What D’Artagnan went to Paris for.  Chapter XX. Of the Society which was formed in the Rue des Lombards.  Chapter XXI. In which D’Artagnan prepares to travel.  Chapter XXII. D’Artagnan travels for the House of Planchet and  Company.  Chapter XXIII. In which the Author is forced to write a Little  History.  Chapter XXIV. The Treasure.  Chapter XXV. The Marsh.  Chapter XXVI. Heart and Mind.  Chapter XXVII. The Next Day.  Chapter XXVIII. Smuggling.  Chapter XXIX. Fear he has placed his Money and that of Planchet in  the Sinking Fund.  Chapter XXX. The Shares of Planchet and Company rise again to Par.  Chapter XXXI. Monk reveals Himself.  Chapter XXXII. Athos and D’Artagnan meet once more at the Hostelry  of the Corne du Cerf.  Chapter XXXIII. The Audience.  Chapter XXXIV. Of the Embarrassment of Riches.  Chapter XXXV. On the Canal.  Chapter XXXVI. How D’Artagnan drew a Country-Seat from a Deal Box.  Chapter XXXVII. How D’Artagnan regulated the "Assets" of the  Company."  Chapter XXXVIII. the French Grocer had already been established in  the Seventeenth Century.  Chapter XXXIX. Mazarin’s Gaming Party.  Chapter XL: An Affair of State.  Chapter XLI. The Recital.  Chapter XLII. In which Mazarin becomes Prodigal.  Chapter XLIII. Guenaud.  Chapter XLIV. Colbert.  Chapter XLV. Confession of a Man of Wealth.  Chapter XLVI. The Donation.  Chapter XLVII. How Anne of Austria gave one Piece of Advice to Louis 
   At length she caught an eloquent look of her companion’s, one of those  looks which would convey intelligence to a brick wall. Louise directed  her attention to a hat--Raoul’s unlucky hat, which was set out in all  its feathery splendor upon the table.    Montalais sprang towards it, and, seizing it with her left hand, passed  it behind her into the right, concealing it as she was speaking.    "Well," said Madame de Saint-Remy, "a courier has arrived, announcing  the approach of the king. There, mesdemoiselles; there is something to  make you put on your best looks."    "Quick, quick!" cried Montalais. "Follow Madame your mother, Louise; and  leave me to get ready my dress of ceremony."    Louise arose; her mother took her by the hand, and led her out on to the  landing.    "Come along," said she; then adding in a low voice, "When I forbid you  to come the apartment of Montalais, why do you do so?"    "Madame, she is my friend. Besides, I had but just come."    "Did you see nobody concealed while you were there?"    "Madame!"    "I saw a man’s hat, I tell you--the hat of that fellow, that  good-for-nothing!"    "Madame!" repeated Louise.    "Of that do-nothing Malicorne! A maid of honor to have such  company--fie! fie!" and their voices were lost in the depths of the  narrow staircase.    Montalais had not missed a word of this conversation, which echo  conveyed to her as if through a tunnel. She shrugged her shoulders on  seeing Raoul, who had listened likewise, issue from the closet.    "Poor Montalais!" said she, "the victim of friendship! Poor Malicorne,  the victim of love!"    She stopped on viewing the tragic-comic face of Raoul, who was vexed at  having, in one day, surprised so many secrets.    "Oh, mademoiselle!" said he; "how can we repay your kindness?"    "Oh, we will balance accounts some day," said she. "For the present,  begone, M. de Bragelonne, for Madame de Saint-Remy is not over  indulgent; and any indiscretion on her part might bring hither a 
possible to the extremity of the curve.    Monsieur, like a good courtier, was inquiring of monsieur le cardinal  after the health of his nieces; he regretted, he said, not having the  pleasure of receiving them at the same time with their uncle; they must  certainly have grown in stature, beauty and grace, as they had promised  to do the last time Monsieur had seen them.    What had first struck the king was a certain constraint in the voices of  the two interlocutors. The voice of Monsieur was calm and natural when  he spoke thus; while that of M. de Mazarin jumped by a note and a half  to reply above the diapason of his usual voice. It might have been said  that he wished that voice to strike, at the end of the salon, any ear  that was too distant.    "Monseigneur," replied he, "Mesdemoiselles de Mazarin have still to  finish their education: they have duties to fulfill, and a position to  make. An abode in a young and brilliant court would dissipate them a  little."    Louis, at this last sentence, smiled sadly. The court was young, it was  true, but the avarice of the cardinal had taken good care that it should  not be brilliant.    "You have nevertheless no intention," replied Monsieur, "to cloister  them or make them borgeoises?"    "Not at all," replied the cardinal, forcing his Italian pronunciation in  such a manner that, from soft and velvety as it was, it became sharp and  vibrating; "not at all: I have a full and fixed intention to marry them,  and that as well as I shall be able."    "Parties will not be wanting, monsieur le cardinal," replied Monsieur,  with a bonhomie worthy of one tradesman congratulating another.    "I hope not, monseigneur, and with reason, as God has been pleased to  give them grace, intelligence, and beauty."    During this conversation, Louis XIV., conducted by Madame, accomplished,  as we have described, the circle of presentations.    "Mademoiselle Auricule," said the princess, presenting to his majesty a  fat, fair girl of two-and-twenty, who at a village fete might have been  taken for a peasant in Sunday finery,--"the daughter of my 
   The brow of Mazarin again became clouded, and he grumbled a few words  that the king could not catch.          Chapter XI. Mazarin’s Policy.      Instead of the hesitation with which he had accosted the cardinal a  quarter of an hour before, there might be read in the eyes of the young  king that will against which a struggle might be maintained, and which  might be crushed by its own impotence, but which, at least, would  preserve, like a wound in the depth of the heart, the remembrance of its  defeat.    "This time, my lord cardinal, we have to deal with something more easily  found than a million."    "Do you think so, sire?" said Mazarin, looking at the king with that  penetrating eye which was accustomed to read to the bottom of hearts.    "Yes, I think so; and when you know the object of my request--"    "And do you think I do not know it, sire?"    "You know what remains for me to say to you?"    "Listen, sire; these are King Charles’s own words--"    "Oh, impossible!"    "Listen. ’And if that miserly, beggarly Italian,’ said he--"    "My lord cardinal!"    "That is the sense, if not the words. Eh! Good heavens! I wish him no  ill on that account; one is biased by his passions. He said to you: ’If  that vile Italian refuses the million we ask of him, sire,--if we are  forced, for want of money, to renounce diplomacy, well, then, we will  ask him to grant us five hundred gentlemen.’"    The king started, for the cardinal was only mistaken in the number.    "Is not that it, sire?" cried the minister, with a triumphant accent.  "And then he added some fine words: he said, ’I have friends on the  other side of the channel, and these friends only want a leader and a  banner. When they see me, when they behold the banner of France, they  will rally around me, for they will comprehend that I have your support.  The colors of the French uniform will be worth as much to me as the 
  "A letter! Ah! we expected one after the little journey of the morning."    "Oh! you know, then, that his majesty--"    "As first minister, it belongs to the duties of our charge to know  everything. And his majesty prays and implores, I presume."    "I don’t know, but he sighed frequently whilst he was writing."    "Yes, yes, yes; we understand all that; people sigh sometimes from  happiness as well as from grief, monsieur."    "And yet the king did not look very happy when he returned, monsieur."    "You did not see clearly. Besides, you only saw his majesty on his  return, for he was only accompanied by the lieutenant of the guards. But  I had his eminence’s telescope; I looked through it when he was tired,  and I am sure they both wept."    "Well! was it for happiness they wept?"    "No, but for love, and they vowed to each other a thousand tendernesses,  which the king asks no better to keep. Now this letter is a beginning of  the execution."    "And what does his eminence think of this love, which is, by the bye, no  secret to anybody?"    Bernouin took the gentleman by the arm, and whilst ascending the  staircase,--"In confidence," said he, in a low voice, "his eminence  looks for success in the affair. I know very well we shall have war with  Spain; but, bah! war will please the nobles. My lord cardinal, besides,  can endow his niece royally, nay, more than royally. There will be  money, festivities, and fire-works--everybody will be delighted."    "Well, for my part," replied the gentleman, shaking his head, "it  appears to me that this letter is very light to contain all that."    "My friend," replied Bernouin, "I am certain of what I tell you. M.  d’Artagnan related all that passed to me."    "Ay, ay! and what did he tell you? Let us hear."    "I accosted him by asking him, on the part of the cardinal, if there  were any news, without discovering my designs, observe, for M.  d’Artagnan is a cunning hand. ’My dear Monsieur Bernouin,’ he replied, 
 "How so?"    "Yes, monsieur, we were obliged to renounce the cestus. He cracked  heads; he broke jaws--beat in ribs. It was charming sport; but nobody  was willing to play with him."    "Then his wrist--"    "Oh, monsieur, firmer than ever. Monseigneur gets a trifle weaker in his  legs,--he confesses that himself; but his strength has all taken refuge  in his arms, so that--"    "So that he can knock down bullocks, as he used to formerly."    "Monsieur, better than that--he beats in walls. Lately, after having  supped with one of our farmers--you know how popular and kind  monseigneur is--after supper, as a joke, he struck the wall a blow. The  wall crumbled away beneath his hand, the roof fell in, and three men and  an old woman were stifled."    "Good God, Mousqueton! And your master?"    "Oh, monseigneur, a little skin was rubbed off his head. We bathed the  wounds with some water which the monks gave us. But there was nothing  the matter with his hand."    "Nothing?"    "No, nothing, monsieur."    "Deuce take the Olympic pleasures! They must cost your master too dear;  for widows and orphans--"    "They all had pensions, monsieur; a tenth of monseigneur’s revenue was  spent in that way."    "Then pass on to Friday," said D’Artagnan.    "Friday, noble and warlike pleasures. We hunt, we fence, we dress  falcons and break horses. Then, Saturday is the day for intellectual  pleasures: we adorn our minds; we look at monseigneur’s pictures and  statues; we write, even, and trace plans: and then we fire monseigneur’s  cannon."    "You draw plans, and fire cannon?"    "Yes, monsieur."    "Why, my friend," said D’Artagnan, "M. du Vallon, in truth, possesses  the most subtle and amiable mind that I know. But there is one kind of  pleasure you have forgotten, it appears to me."    "What is that, monsieur?" asked Mousqueton, with anxiety.    "The material pleasures."    Mousqueton colored. "What do you mean by that, monsieur?" said he,  casting down his eyes.    
  "What is this all about?" then demanded he of the assembly, with the  majestic tone of Neptune pronouncing the Quos ego.    At the very instant, at the first sound of his voice, to carry on the  Virgilian metaphor, D’Artagnan’s recruits, recognizing each his  sovereign lord, discontinued their plank-fighting and trestle blows. On  their side, the sailors, seeing that long naked sword, that martial air,  and the agile arm which came to the rescue of their enemies, in the  person of a man who seemed accustomed to command, the sailors picked up  their wounded and their pitchers. The Parisians wiped their brows, and  viewed their leader with respect. D’Artagnan was loaded with thanks by  the host of "Le Grand Monarque." He received them like a man who knows  that nothing is being offered that does not belong to him, and then said  he would go and walk upon the port till supper was ready. Immediately  each of the recruits, who understood the summons, took his hat, brushed  the dust off his clothes, and followed D’Artagnan. But D’Artagnan,  whilst walking and observing, took care not to stop; he directed his  course towards the downs, and the ten men--surprised at finding  themselves going in the track of each other, uneasy at seeing on their  right, on their left, and behind them, companions upon whom they had not  reckoned--followed him, casting furtive glances at each other. It was  not till he had arrived at the hollow part of the deepest down that  D’Artagnan, smiling to see them outdone, turned towards them, making a  friendly sign with his hand.    "Eh! come, come, gentlemen," said he, "let us not devour each other; you  are made to live together, to understand each other in all respects, and  not to devour one another."    Instantly all hesitation ceased; the men breathed as if they had been  taken out of a coffin, and examined each other complacently. After this  examination they turned their eyes towards their leader, who had long  been acquainted with the art of speaking to men of that class, and who  improvised the following little speech, pronounced with an energy truly  Gascon:    "Gentlemen, you all know who I am. I have engaged you from knowing you 
 was cut and fashioned into the shape of a lever, the three men  penetrated into the vault.    "Stop where you are," said Monk to the fisherman. "We are going to dig  up some powder; your light may be dangerous."    The man drew back in a sort of terror, and faithfully kept to the post  assigned him, whilst Monk and Athos turned behind a column at the foot  of which, penetrating through a crack, was a moonbeam, reflected exactly  on the stone which the Comte de la Fere had come so far in search.    "This is it," said Athos, pointing out to the general the Latin  inscription.    "Yes," said Monk.    Then, as if still willing to leave the Frenchman one means of evasion,--    "Do you not observe that this vault has already been broken into,"  continued he, "and that several statues have already been knocked down?"    "My lord, you have, without doubt, heard that the religious respect of  your Scots loves to confide to the statues of the dead the valuable  objects they have possessed during their lives. Therefore, the soldiers  had reason to think that under the pedestals of the statues which  ornament most of these tombs, a treasure was hidden. They have  consequently broken down pedestal and statue: but the tomb of the  venerable cannon, with which we have to do, is not distinguished by any  monument. It is simple, therefore it has been protected by the  superstitious fear which your Puritans have always had of sacrilege. Not  a morsel of the masonry of this tomb has been chipped off."    "That is true," said Monk.    Athos seized the lever.    "Shall I help you?" said Monk.    "Thank you, my lord; but I am not willing that your honor should lend  your hand to a work of which, perhaps, you would not take the  responsibility if you knew the probable consequences of it."    Monk raised his head.    "What do you mean by that, monsieur?"    "I mean--but that man--"    "Stop," said Monk; "I perceive what you are afraid of. I shall make a 
going on badly.    During all this time Charles II. had fallen into a profound reverie. For  the first time he found himself face to face with Monk; with the man he  had so much desired to see; and, with that peculiar glance which God has  given to eagles and kings, he had fathomed the abyss of his heart. He  beheld Monk, then, resolved positively to die rather than speak, which  was not to be wondered at in so considerable a man, the wound in whose  mind must at the moment have been cruel. Charles II. formed, on the  instant, one of those resolutions upon which an ordinary man risks his  life, a general his fortune, and a king his kingdom. "Monsieur," said he  to Monk, "you are perfectly right upon certain points; I do not,  therefore, ask you to answer me, but to listen to me."    There was a moment’s silence, during which the king looked at Monk, who  remained impassible.    "You have made me just now a painful reproach, monsieur," continued the  king; "you said that one of my emissaries had been to Newcastle to lay a  snare for you, and that, parenthetically, cannot be understood by M.  d’Artagnan here, and to whom, before everything, I owe sincere thanks  for his generous, his heroic devotion."    D’Artagnan bowed with respect; Monk took no notice.    "For M. d’Artagnan--and observe, M. Monk, I do not say this to excuse  myself--for M. d’Artagnan," continued the king, "went to England of his  free will, without interest, without orders, without hope, like a true  gentleman as he is, to render a service to an unfortunate king, and to  add to the illustrious actions of an existence, already so well filled,  one glorious deed more."    D’Artagnan colored a little, and coughed to keep his countenance. Monk  did not stir.    "You do not believe what I tell you, M. Monk," continued the king. "I  can understand that,--such proofs of devotion are so rare, that their  reality may well be put in doubt."    "Monsieur would do wrong not to believe you, sire," cried D’Artagnan:  "for that which your majesty has said is the exact truth, and the truth 
 believe, an audience of his majesty."    "At nine o’clock," said Athos.    "At ten o’clock," said D’Artagnan.    "Let us go into this closet at once," replied Monk, making a sign to his  two companions to precede him; but to that neither would consent.    The king, during this discussion so characteristic of the French, had  returned to the center of the gallery.    "Oh! my Frenchmen!" said he, in that tone of careless gayety which, in  spite of so much grief and so many crosses, he had never lost. "My  Frenchmen! my consolation!" Athos and D’Artagnan bowed.    "Duke, conduct these gentlemen into my study. I am at your service,  messieurs," added he in French. And he promptly expedited his court, to  return to his Frenchmen, as he called them. "Monsieur d’Artagnan," said  he, as he entered his closet, "I am glad to see you again."    "Sire, my joy is at its height, at having the honor to salute your  majesty in your own palace of St. James’s."    "Monsieur, you have been willing to render me a great service, and I owe  you my gratitude for it. If I did not fear to intrude upon the rights of  our command general, I would offer you some post worthy of you near our  person."    "Sire," replied D’Artagnan, "I have quitted the service of the king of  France, making a promise to my prince not to serve any other king."    "Humph!" said Charles, "I am sorry to hear that; I should like to do  much for you; I like you very much."    "Sire--"    "But, let us see," said Charles with a smile, "if we cannot make you  break your word. Duke, assist me. If you were offered, that is to say,  if I offered you the chief command of my musketeers?" D’Artagnan bowed  lower than before.    "I should have the regret to refuse what your gracious majesty would  offer me," said he; "a gentleman has but his word, and that word, as I  have had the honor to tell your majesty, is engaged to the king of  
D’Artagnan, surprising one of those smiles over his shoulder, put the  bundle in its wrapper.    "I beg your pardon," said Athos.    "Oh! not at all, my friend," replied the lieutenant, "I shall tell  you--"    "No, don’t tell me anything, I beg you; orders are things so sacred,  that to one’s brother, one’s father, the person charged with such orders  should never open his mouth. Thus I, who speak to you, and love you more  tenderly than brother, father, or all the world--"    "Except your Raoul?"    "I shall love Raoul still better when he shall be a man, and I shall  have seen him develop himself in all the phases of his character and his  actions--as I have seen you, my friend."    "You said, then, that you had an order likewise, and that you would not  communicate it to me."    "Yes, my dear D’Artagnan."    The Gascon sighed. "There was a time," said he, "when you would have  placed that order open upon the table, saying, ’D’Artagnan, read this  scrawl to Porthos, Aramis, and to me.’"    "That is true. Oh! that was the time of youth, confidence, the generous  season when the blood commands, when it is warmed by feeling!"    "Well! Athos, will you allow me to tell you?"    "Speak, my friend!"    "That delightful time, that generous season, that ruling by warm blood,  were all very fine things, no doubt: but I do not regret them at all. It  is absolutely like the period of studies. I have constantly met with  fools who would boast of the days of pensums, ferules, and crusts of dry  bread. It is singular, but I never loved all that; for my part, however  active and sober I might be (you know if I was so, Athos), however  simple I might appear in my clothes, I would not the less have preferred  the braveries and embroideries of Porthos to my little perforated  cassock, which gave passage to the wind in winter and the sun in summer.  I should always, my friend, mistrust him who would pretend to prefer  evil to good. Now, in times past all went wrong with me, and every month 
 "For me?" cried the Duc d’Anjou.    "Those fifty thousand crowns; yes, monseigneur, they are yours."    "Do you give them to me?"    "I have been playing on your account, monseigneur," replied the  cardinal, getting weaker and weaker, as if this effort of giving money  had exhausted all his physical and moral faculties.    "Oh, good heavens!" exclaimed Philip, wild with joy, "what a fortunate  day!" And he himself, making a rake of his fingers, drew a part of the  sum into his pockets, which he filled, and still full a third remained  on the table.    "Chevalier," said Philip to his favorite, the Chevalier de Lorraine,  "come hither, chevalier." The favorite quickly obeyed. "Pocket the  rest," said the young prince.    This singular scene was considered by the persons present only as a  touching kind of family fete. The cardinal assumed the airs of a father  with the sons of France, and the two princes had grown up under his  wing. No one then imputed to pride, or even impertinence, as would be  done nowadays, this liberality on the part of the first minister. The  courtiers were satisfied with envying the prince.--The king turned away  his head.    "I never had so much money before," said the young prince, joyously, as  he crossed the chamber with his favorite to go to his carriage. "No,  never! What a weight these crowns are!"    "But why has monsieur le cardinal given away all this money at once?"  asked M. le Prince of the Comte de la Fere. "He must be very ill, the  dear cardinal!"    "Yes, my lord, very ill, without doubt; he looks very ill, as your royal  highness may perceive."    "But surely he will die of it. A hundred and fifty thousand livres! Oh,  it is incredible! But, comte, tell me a reason for it?"    "Patience, monseigneur, I beg of you. Here comes M. le Duc d’Anjou,  talking with the Chevalier de Lorraine; I should not be surprised if  they spared us the trouble of being indiscreet. Listen to them."    In fact the chevalier said to the prince in a low voice, "My lord, it is 
Limousin, Perche, and Normandy; and this emulation would have been  beneficial to all. But the king is silent, and consequently I am  condemned."    During this speech, Louis was, unconsciously, folding and unfolding  Mazarin’s paper, upon which he had not cast his eyes. At length he  glanced upon it, and uttered a faint cry at reading the first line.    "What is the matter, my son?" asked the queen, anxiously, and going  towards the king.    "From the cardinal," replied the king, continuing to read; "yes, yes, it  is really from him."    "Is he worse, then?"    "Read!" said the king, passing the parchment to his mother, as if he  thought that nothing less than reading would convince Anne of Austria of  a thing so astonishing as was conveyed in that paper.    Anne of Austria read in turn, and as she read, her eyes sparkled with  joy all the greater from her useless endeavor to hide it, which  attracted the attention of Fouquet.    "Oh! a regularly drawn up deed of gift," said she.    "A gift?" repeated Fouquet.    "Yes," said the king, replying pointedly to the superintendent of  finances, "yes, at the point of death, monsieur le cardinal makes me a  donation of all his wealth."    "Forty millions," cried the queen. "Oh, my son! this is very noble on  the part of his eminence, and will silence all malicious rumors; forty  millions scraped together slowly, coming back all in one heap to the  treasury! It is the act of a faithful subject and a good Christian." And  having once more cast her eyes over the act, she restored it to Louis  XIV., whom the announcement of the sum greatly agitated. Fouquet had  taken some steps backwards and remained silent. The king looked at him,  and held the paper out to him, in turn. The superintendent only bestowed  a haughty look of a second upon it; then bowing,--"Yes, sire," said he,  "a donation, I see."    "You must reply to it, my son," said Anne of Austria; "you must reply to  it, and immediately."    "But how, madame?"   
 "In that month--"    "What have you done?"    "My duty, monsieur."    "Have you not been home, to La Fere?"    Raoul colored. Athos looked at him with a fixed but tranquil expression.    "You would be wrong not to believe me," said Raoul. "I feel that I  colored, and in spite of myself. The question you did me the honor to  ask me is of a nature to raise in me much emotion. I color, then,  because I am agitated, not because I meditate a falsehood."    "I know, Raoul, you never lie."    "No, monsieur."    "Besides, my young friend, you would be wrong; what I wanted to say--"    "I know quite well, monsieur. You would ask me if I have not been to  Blois?"    "Exactly so."    "I have not been there; I have not even seen the person to whom you  allude."    Raoul’s voice trembled as he pronounced these words. Athos, a sovereign  judge in all matters of delicacy, immediately added, "Raoul, you answer  me with a painful feeling; you are unhappy."    "Very, monsieur; you have forbidden me to go to Blois, or to see  Mademoiselle de la Valliere again." Here the young man stopped. That  dear name, so delightful to pronounce, made his heart bleed, although so  sweet upon his lips.    "And I have acted rightly, Raoul." Athos hastened to reply. "I am  neither an unjust nor a barbarous father; I respect true love; but I  look forward for you to a future--an immense future. A new reign is  about to break upon us like a fresh dawn. War calls upon a young king  full of chivalric spirit. What is wanting to assist this heroic ardor is  a battalion of young and free lieutenants who would rush to the fight  with enthusiasm, and fall, crying: ’Vive le Roi!’ instead of ’Adieu, my  dear wife.’ You understand that, Raoul. However brutal my reasoning may  appear, I conjure you, then, to believe me, and to turn away your  thoughts from those early days of youth in which you took up this habit  
"I desire that you shall keep open house; I desire that you should keep  a liberal table; I desire that my captain of musketeers should be a  personage."    "And I," said D’Artagnan, bluntly; "I do not like easily found money; I  like money won! Your majesty gives me an idle trade, which the first  comer would perform for four thousand livres."    Louis XIV. began to laugh. "You are a true Gascon, Monsieur d’Artagnan;  you will draw my heart’s secret from me."    "Bah! has your majesty a secret, then?"    "Yes, monsieur."    "Well! then I accept the twenty thousand livres, for I will keep that  secret, and discretion is above all price, in these times. Will your  majesty speak now?"    "Boot yourself, Monsieur d’Artagnan, and to horse!"    "Directly, sire."    "Within two days."    "That is well, sire: for I have my affairs to settle before I set out;  particularly if it is likely there should be any blows stirring."    "That may happen."    "We can receive them! But, sire, you have addressed yourself to avarice,  to ambition; you have addressed yourself to the heart of M. d’Artagnan,  but you have forgotten one thing."    "What is that?"    "You have said nothing to his vanity; when shall I be a knight of the  king’s orders?"    "Does that interest you?"    "Why, yes, sire. My friend Athos is quite covered with orders, and that  dazzles me."    "You shall be a knight of my order a month after you have taken your  commission of captain."    "Ah! ah!" said the officer, thoughtfully, "after the expedition."    "Precisely."    "Where is your majesty going to send me?"    "Are you acquainted with Bretagne?"    "No, sire."    "Have you any friends there?"    "In Bretagne? No, ma foi!"    "So much the better. Do you know anything about fortifications?"    "I believe I do, sire," said D’Artagnan, smiling.    "That is to say you can readily distinguish a fortress from a simple 
   "Would you advise such baseness?" cried Fouquet, "would you advise me to  abandon my friends? would you advise me, whilst able to fight, to throw  the arms I hold in my hand to the ground?"    "I do not advise you to do anything of the kind, monseigneur. Are you in  a position to quit the post of superintendent at this moment?"    "No."    "Well, if the king wishes to displace you--"    "He will displace me absent as well as present."    "Yes, but you will not have insulted him."    "Yes, but I shall have been base; now I am not willing that my friends  should die; and they shall not die!"    "For that it is necessary you should go to the Louvre, is it not?"    "Gourville!"    "Beware! once at the Louvre, you will be forced to defend your friends  openly, that is to say, to make a profession of faith; or you will be  forced to abandon them irrevocably."    "Never!"    "Pardon me;--the king will propose the alternative to you, rigorously,  or else you will propose it to him yourself."    "That is true."    "That is the reason why conflict must be avoided. Let us return to  Saint-Mande, monseigneur."    "Gourville, I will not stir from this place, where the crime is to be  carried out, where my disgrace is to be accomplished; I will not stir, I  say, till I have found some means of combating my enemies."    "Monseigneur," replied Gourville, "you would excite my pity, if I did  not know you for one of the great spirits of this world. You possess a  hundred and fifty millions, you are equal to the king in position, and a  hundred and fifty millions his superior in money. M. Colbert has not  even had the wit to have the will of Mazarin accepted. Now, when a man  is the richest person in a kingdom, and will take the trouble to spend  the money, if things are done he does not like, it is because he is a  poor man. Let us return to Saint-Mande, I say." 
From the spot on which they had placed themselves the two new guests of  the Image-de-Notre-Dame heard the ever-increasing hubbub of the tide of  people, and lost neither a cry nor a gesture of the drinkers, at tables  in the cabaret, or disseminated in the chambers. If D’Artagnan had  wished to place himself as a vidette for an expedition, he could not  have succeeded better. The tree under which he and Raoul were seated  covered them with its already thick foliage; it was a low, thick  chestnut-tree, with inclined branches, that cast their shade over a  table so dilapidated the drinkers had abandoned it. We said that from  this post D’Artagnan saw everything. He observed the goings and comings  of the waiters; the arrival of fresh drinkers; the welcome, sometimes  friendly, sometimes hostile, given to the newcomers by others already  installed. He observed all this to amuse himself, for the thirty-seven  and a half pistoles were a long time coming. Raoul recalled his  attention to it. "Monsieur," said he, "you do not hurry your tenant, and  the condemned will soon be here. There will then be such a press we  shall not be able to get out."    "You are right," said the musketeer; "Hola! oh! somebody there!  Mordioux!" But it was in vain he cried and knocked upon the wreck of the  old table, which fell to pieces beneath his fist; nobody came.  D’Artagnan was preparing to go and seek the cabaretier himself, to force  him to a definite explanation, when the door of the court in which he  was with Raoul, a door which communicated with the garden situated at  the back, opened, and a man dressed as a cavalier, with his sword in the  sheath, but not at his belt, crossed the court without closing the door;  and having cast an oblique glance at D’Artagnan and his companion,  directed his course towards the cabaret itself, looking about in all  directions with his eyes capable of piercing walls of consciences.  "Humph!" said D’Artagnan, "my tenants are communicating. That, no doubt,  now, is some amateur in hanging matters." At the same moment the cries  and disturbance in the upper chambers ceased. Silence, under such  circumstances, surprises more than a twofold increase of noise. 
 if he wants me, he will give me what he has promised me--warmth and  light; so that I march, comparatively, now, as I marched formerly,--from  nothing to everything. Only the nothing of to-day is the all of former  days; there has only this little change taken place in my life. And now  let us see! let us take the part of the heart, as I just now was  speaking of it. But in truth, I only spoke of it from memory." And the  Gascon applied his hand to his breast, as if he were actually seeking  the place where his heart was.    "Ah! wretch!" murmured he, smiling with bitterness. "Ah! poor mortal  species! You hoped, for an instant, that you had not a heart, and now  you find you have one--bad courtier as thou art,--and even one of the  most seditious. You have a heart which speaks to you in favor of M.  Fouquet. And what is M. Fouquet, when the king is in question?--A  conspirator, a real conspirator, who did not even give himself the  trouble to conceal his being a conspirator; therefore, what a weapon  would you not have against him, if his good grace, and his intelligence  had not made a scabbard for that weapon. An armed revolt!--for, in fact,  M. Fouquet has been guilty of an armed revolt. Thus, while the king  vaguely suspects M. Fouquet of rebellion, I know it--I could prove that  M. Fouquet had caused the shedding of the blood of his majesty’s  subjects. Now, then, let us see. Knowing all that, and holding my  tongue, what further would this heart wish in return for a kind action  of M. Fouquet’s, for an advance of fifteen thousand livres, for a  diamond worth a thousand pistoles, for a smile in which there was as  much bitterness as kindness?--I save his life."    "Now, then, I hope," continued the musketeer, "that this imbecile of a  heart is going to preserve silence, and so be fairly quits with M.  Fouquet. Now, then, the king becomes my sun, and as my heart is quits  with M. Fouquet, let him beware who places himself between me and my  sun! Forward, for his majesty Louis XIV.!--Forward!" 
you--that is to say, Aramis always suspected you to have savings. For my  own part, d’ye see, I take no concern about the management of my  household; but I presume the savings of a musketeer must be small."    "No doubt, relative to yourself, Porthos, who are a millionaire; but you  shall judge. I had laid by twenty-five thousand livres."    "That’s pretty well," said Porthos, with an affable air.    "And," continued D’Artagnan, "on the twenty-eighth of last month I added  to it two hundred thousand livres more."    Porthos opened his large eyes, which eloquently demanded of the  musketeer, "Where the devil did you steal such a sum as that, my dear  friend?" "Two hundred thousand livres!" cried he, at length.    "Yes; which, with the twenty-five I had, and twenty thousand I have  about me, complete the sum of two hundred and forty-five thousand  livres."    "But tell me, whence comes this fortune?"    "I will tell you all about it presently, dear friend; but as you have,  in the first place, many things to tell me yourself, let us have my  recital in its proper order."    "Bravo!" said Porthos; "then we are both rich. But what can I have to  relate to you?"    "You have to relate to me how Aramis came to be named--"    "Ah! bishop of Vannes."    "That’s it," said D’Artagnan, "bishop of Vannes. Dear Aramis! do you  know how he succeeded so well?"    "Yes, yes; without reckoning that he does not mean to stop there."    "What! do you mean he will not be contented with violet stockings, and  that he wants a red hat?"    "Hush! that is promised him."    "Bah! by the king?"    "By somebody more powerful than the king."    "Ah! the devil! Porthos: what incredible things you tell me, my friend!"    "Why incredible? Is there not always somebody in France more powerful  than the king?"    "Oh, yes; in the time of King Louis XIII. it was Cardinal Richelieu; in  the time of the regency it was Cardinal Mazarin. In the time of Louis 
   "Yes, that’s it; but I never could recollect it."    "All the better. What more did he ask you?"    "Who M. Getard was."    "Next?"    "Who M. Jupenet was."    "He did not happen to see our plan of fortifications, did he?"    "Yes."    "The devil he did!"    "But don’t be alarmed, I had rubbed out your writing with India-rubber.  It was impossible for him to suppose you had given me any advice in  those works."    "Ay; but our friend has phenomenally keen eyes."    "What are you afraid of?"    "I fear that everything is discovered, Porthos; the matter is, then, to  prevent a great misfortune. I have given orders to my people to close  all the gates and doors. D’Artagnan will not be able to get out before  daybreak. Your horse is ready saddled; you will gain the first relay; by  five o’clock in the morning you will have traversed fifteen leagues.  Come!"    Aramis then assisted Porthos to dress, piece by piece, with as much  celerity as the most skillful valet de chambre could have done. Porthos,  half stupefied, let him do as he liked, and confounded himself in  excuses. When he was ready, Aramis took him by the hand, and led him,  making him place his foot with precaution on every step of the stairs,  preventing him running against door-frames, turning him this way and  that, as if Aramis had been the giant and Porthos the dwarf. Soul set  fire to and animated matter. A horse was waiting, ready saddled, in the  courtyard. Porthos mounted. Then Aramis himself took the horse by the  bridle, and led him over some dung spread in the yard, with the evident  intention of suppressing noise. He, at the same time, held tight the  horse’s nose, to prevent him neighing. When arrived at the outward gate,  drawing Porthos towards him, who was going off without even asking him  what for: "Now, friend Porthos, now; without drawing bridle, till you  get to Paris," whispered he in his ears; "eat on horseback, drink on  horseback, but lose not a minute." 
