in its present form it will fall into the hands of an even wider  public, and that in years to come it may continue to afford  amusement to those who are still young enough at heart to love a  story of treasure, war, and wild adventure.    Ditchingham,  11 March, 1898.        POST SCRIPTUM    Now, in 1907, on the occasion of the issue of this edition, I can  only add how glad I am that my romance should continue to please  so many readers. Imagination has been verified by fact; the King  Solomon's Mines I dreamed of have been discovered, and are putting  out their gold once more, and, according to the latest reports,  their diamonds also; the Kukuanas or, rather, the Matabele, have  been tamed by the white man's bullets, but still there seem to be  many who find pleasure in these simple pages. That they may  continue so to do, even to the third and fourth generation, or  perhaps longer still, would, I am sure, be the hope of our old and  departed friend, Allan Quatermain.    H. Rider Haggard.  Ditchingham, 1907.        INTRODUCTION    Now that this book is printed, and about to be given to the world, a  sense of its shortcomings both in style and contents, weighs very  heavily upon me. As regards the latter, I can only say that it does not  pretend to be a full account of everything we did and saw. There are  many things connected with our journey into Kukuanaland that I should  have liked to dwell upon at length, which, as it is, have been scarcely  alluded to. Amongst these are the curious legends which I collected  about the chain armour that saved us from destruction in the great  battle of Loo, and also about the "Silent Ones" or Colossi at the mouth  of the stalactite cave. Again, if I had given way to my own impulses, I 
 But as time went on I grew more and more troubled about him. I found  out, Mr. Quatermain, that blood is thicker than water."    "That's true," said I, thinking of my boy Harry.    "I found out, Mr. Quatermain, that I would have given half my fortune  to know that my brother George, the only relation I possess, was safe  and well, and that I should see him again."    "But you never did, Curtis," jerked out Captain Good, glancing at the  big man's face.    "Well, Mr. Quatermain, as time went on I became more and more anxious  to find out if my brother was alive or dead, and if alive to get him  home again. I set enquiries on foot, and your letter was one of the  results. So far as it went it was satisfactory, for it showed that till  lately George was alive, but it did not go far enough. So, to cut a  long story short, I made up my mind to come out and look for him  myself, and Captain Good was so kind as to come with me."    "Yes," said the captain; "nothing else to do, you see. Turned out by my  Lords of the Admiralty to starve on half pay. And now perhaps, sir, you  will tell us what you know or have heard of the gentleman called  Neville."      [1] Mr. Quatermain's ideas about ancient Danes seem to be rather  confused; we have always understood that they were dark-haired people.  Probably he was thinking of Saxons.--Editor.        CHAPTER II    THE LEGEND OF SOLOMON'S MINES    "What was it that you heard about my brother's journey at Bamangwato?"  asked Sir Henry, as I paused to fill my pipe before replying to Captain  Good.    "I heard this," I answered, "and I have never mentioned it to a soul  till to-day. I heard that he was starting for Solomon's Mines."    "Solomon's Mines?" ejaculated both my hearers at once. "Where are they?"    "I don't know," I said; "I know where they are said to be. Once I saw  the peaks of the mountains that border them, but there were a hundred 
and, feeling themselves swelling, rolled about in the bottom of the  boat, calling out that the good liquor was "tagati"--that is,  bewitched. I spoke to them from the vessel, and told them it was the  white man's strongest medicine, and that they were as good as dead men.  Those Kafirs went to the shore in a very great fright, and I do not  think that they will touch champagne again.    Well, all the time that we were steaming up to Natal I was thinking  over Sir Henry Curtis's offer. We did not speak any more on the subject  for a day or two, though I told them many hunting yarns, all true ones.  There is no need to tell lies about hunting, for so many curious things  happen within the knowledge of a man whose business it is to hunt; but  this is by the way.    At last, one beautiful evening in January, which is our hottest month,  we steamed past the coast of Natal, expecting to make Durban Point by  sunset. It is a lovely coast all along from East London, with its red  sandhills and wide sweeps of vivid green, dotted here and there with  Kafir kraals, and bordered by a ribbon of white surf, which spouts up  in pillars of foam where it hits the rocks. But just before you come to  Durban there is a peculiar richness about the landscape. There are the  sheer kloofs cut in the hills by the rushing rains of centuries, down  which the rivers sparkle; there is the deepest green of the bush,  growing as God planted it, and the other greens of the mealie gardens  and the sugar patches, while now and again a white house, smiling out  at the placid sea, puts a finish and gives an air of homeliness to the  scene. For to my mind, however beautiful a view may be, it requires the  presence of man to make it complete, but perhaps that is because I have  lived so much in the wilderness, and therefore know the value of  civilisation, though to be sure it drives away the game. The Garden of  Eden, no doubt, looked fair before man was, but I always think that it 
 Then we all laughed and took it for a good omen. Umbopa was a cheerful  savage, in a dignified sort of way, when he was not suffering from one  of his fits of brooding, and he had a wonderful knack of keeping up our  spirits. We all grew very fond of him.    And now for the one adventure to which I am going to treat myself, for  I do dearly love a hunting yarn.    About a fortnight's march from Inyati we came across a peculiarly  beautiful bit of well-watered woodland country. The kloofs in the hills  were covered with dense bush, "idoro" bush as the natives call it, and  in some places, with the "wacht-een-beche," or "wait-a-little thorn,"  and there were great quantities of the lovely "machabell" tree, laden  with refreshing yellow fruit having enormous stones. This tree is the  elephant's favourite food, and there were not wanting signs that the  great brutes had been about, for not only was their spoor frequent, but  in many places the trees were broken down and even uprooted. The  elephant is a destructive feeder.    One evening, after a long day's march, we came to a spot of great  loveliness. At the foot of a bush-clad hill lay a dry river-bed, in  which, however, were to be found pools of crystal water all trodden  round with the hoof-prints of game. Facing this hill was a park-like  plain, where grew clumps of flat-topped mimosa, varied with occasional  glossy-leaved machabells, and all round stretched the sea of pathless,  silent bush.    As we emerged into this river-bed path suddenly we started a troop of  tall giraffes, who galloped, or rather sailed off, in their strange  gait, their tails screwed up over their backs, and their hoofs rattling  like castanets. They were about three hundred yards from us, and  therefore practically out of shot, but Good, who was walking ahead, and  who had an express loaded with solid ball in his hand, could not resist  temptation. Lifting his gun, he let drive at the last, a young cow. By  some extraordinary chance the ball struck it full on the back of the  neck, shattering the spinal column, and that giraffe went rolling head 
fly out of the Nowhere; for a moment our wings are seen in the light of  the fire, and, lo! we are gone again into the Nowhere. Life is nothing.  Life is all. It is the Hand with which we hold off Death. It is the  glow-worm that shines in the night-time and is black in the morning; it  is the white breath of the oxen in winter; it is the little shadow that  runs across the grass and loses itself at sunset."    "You are a strange man," said Sir Henry, when he had ceased.    Umbopa laughed. "It seems to me that we are much alike, Incubu. Perhaps  _I_ seek a brother over the mountains."    I looked at him suspiciously. "What dost thou mean?" I asked; "what  dost thou know of those mountains?"    "A little; a very little. There is a strange land yonder, a land of  witchcraft and beautiful things; a land of brave people, and of trees,  and streams, and snowy peaks, and of a great white road. I have heard  of it. But what is the good of talking? It grows dark. Those who live  to see will see."    Again I looked at him doubtfully. The man knew too much.    "You need not fear me, Macumazahn," he said, interpreting my look. "I  dig no holes for you to fall in. I make no plots. If ever we cross  those mountains behind the sun I will tell what I know. But Death sits  upon them. Be wise and turn back. Go and hunt elephants, my masters. I  have spoken."    And without another word he lifted his spear in salutation, and  returned towards the camp, where shortly afterwards we found him  cleaning a gun like any other Kafir.    "That is an odd man," said Sir Henry.    "Yes," answered I, "too odd by half. I don't like his little ways. He  knows something, and will not speak out. But I suppose it is no use  quarrelling with him. We are in for a curious trip, and a mysterious  Zulu won't make much difference one way or another."    Next day we made our arrangements for starting. Of course it was 
   Meanwhile Ventvögel was lifting his snub nose, and sniffing the hot air  for all the world like an old Impala ram who scents danger. Presently  he spoke again.    "I _smell_ water," he said.    Then we felt quite jubilant, for we knew what a wonderful instinct  these wild-bred men possess.    Just at that moment the sun came up gloriously, and revealed so grand a  sight to our astonished eyes that for a moment or two we even forgot  our thirst.    There, not more than forty or fifty miles from us, glittering like  silver in the early rays of the morning sun, soared Sheba's Breasts;  and stretching away for hundreds of miles on either side of them ran  the great Suliman Berg. Now that, sitting here, I attempt to describe  the extraordinary grandeur and beauty of that sight, language seems to  fail me. I am impotent even before its memory. Straight before us, rose  two enormous mountains, the like of which are not, I believe, to be  seen in Africa, if indeed there are any other such in the world,  measuring each of them at least fifteen thousand feet in height,  standing not more than a dozen miles apart, linked together by a  precipitous cliff of rock, and towering in awful white solemnity  straight into the sky. These mountains placed thus, like the pillars of  a gigantic gateway, are shaped after the fashion of a woman's breasts,  and at times the mists and shadows beneath them take the form of a  recumbent woman, veiled mysteriously in sleep. Their bases swell gently  from the plain, looking at that distance perfectly round and smooth;  and upon the top of each is a vast hillock covered with snow, exactly  corresponding to the nipple on the female breast. The stretch of cliff  that connects them appears to be some thousands of feet in height, and  perfectly precipitous, and on each flank of them, so far as the eye can  reach, extent similar lines of cliff, broken only here and there by  flat table-topped mountains, something like the world-famed one at Cape  Town; a formation, by the way, that is very common in Africa.  
was running. Nor was this all. By the stream, basking in the bright  sun, stood and lay a group of from ten to fifteen _large antelopes_--at  that distance we could not see of what species.    The sight filled us with an unreasoning joy. If only we could get it,  there was food in plenty. But the question was how to do so. The beasts  were fully six hundred yards off, a very long shot, and one not to be  depended on when our lives hung on the results.    Rapidly we discussed the advisability of trying to stalk the game, but  in the end dismissed it reluctantly. To begin with, the wind was not  favourable, and further, we must certainly be perceived, however  careful we were, against the blinding background of snow, which we  should be obliged to traverse.    "Well, we must have a try from where we are," said Sir Henry. "Which  shall it be, Quatermain, the repeating rifles or the expresses?"    Here again was a question. The Winchester repeaters--of which we had  two, Umbopa carrying poor Ventvögel's as well as his own--were sighted  up to a thousand yards, whereas the expresses were only sighted to  three hundred and fifty, beyond which distance shooting with them was  more or less guess-work. On the other hand, if they did hit, the  express bullets, being "expanding," were much more likely to bring the  game down. It was a knotty point, but I made up my mind that we must  risk it and use the expresses.    "Let each of us take the buck opposite to him. Aim well at the point of  the shoulder and high up," said I; "and Umbopa, do you give the word,  so that we may all fire together."    Then came a pause, each of us aiming his level best, as indeed a man is  likely to do when he knows that life itself depends upon the shot.    "Fire," said Umbopa in Zulu, and at almost the same instant the three  rifles rang out loudly; three clouds of smoke hung for a moment before  us, and a hundred echoes went flying over the silent snow. Presently 
   "No! no!" he ejaculated hastily, "my old eyes have seen enough. These  are wizards, indeed. Let us bring them to the king. Yet if any should  wish a further proof, let _him_ stand upon the rock, that the magic  tube may speak with him."    There was a most general and hasty expression of dissent.    "Let not good magic be wasted on our poor bodies," said one; "we are  satisfied. All the witchcraft of our people cannot show the like of  this."    "It is so," remarked the old gentleman, in a tone of intense relief;  "without any doubt it is so. Listen, children of the Stars, children of  the shining Eye and the movable Teeth, who roar out in thunder, and  slay from afar. I am Infadoos, son of Kafa, once king of the Kukuana  people. This youth is Scragga."    "He nearly scragged me," murmured Good.    "Scragga, son of Twala, the great king--Twala, husband of a thousand  wives, chief and lord paramount of the Kukuanas, keeper of the great  Road, terror of his enemies, student of the Black Arts, leader of a  hundred thousand warriors, Twala the One-eyed, the Black, the Terrible."    "So," said I superciliously, "lead us then to Twala. We do not talk  with low people and underlings."    "It is well, my lords, we will lead you; but the way is long. We are  hunting three days' journey from the place of the king. But let my  lords have patience, and we will lead them."    "So be it," I said carelessly; "all time is before us, for we do not  die. We are ready, lead on. But Infadoos, and thou Scragga, beware!  Play us no monkey tricks, set for us no foxes' snares, for before your  brains of mud have thought of them we shall know and avenge. The light  of the transparent eye of him with the bare legs and the half-haired  face shall destroy you, and go through your land; his vanishing teeth  shall affix themselves fast in you and eat you up, you and your wives  and children; the magic tubes shall argue with you loudly, and make you 
for the regiments, and a curious horseshoe-shaped hill, with which we  were destined to become better acquainted, about two miles to the  north. It is beautifully situated, and through the centre of the kraal,  dividing it into two portions, runs a river, which appeared to be  bridged in several places, the same indeed that we had seen from the  slopes of Sheba's Breasts. Sixty or seventy miles away three great  snow-capped mountains, placed at the points of a triangle, started out  of the level plain. The conformation of these mountains is unlike that  of Sheba's Breasts, being sheer and precipitous, instead of smooth and  rounded.    Infadoos saw us looking at them, and volunteered a remark.    "The road ends there," he said, pointing to the mountains known among  the Kukuanas as the "Three Witches."    "Why does it end?" I asked.    "Who knows?" he answered with a shrug; "the mountains are full of  caves, and there is a great pit between them. It is there that the wise  men of old time used to go to get whatever it was they came for to this  country, and it is there now that our kings are buried in the Place of  Death."    "What was it they came for?" I asked eagerly.    "Nay, I know not. My lords who have dropped from the Stars should  know," he answered with a quick look. Evidently he knew more than he  chose to say.    "Yes," I went on, "you are right, in the Stars we learn many things. I  have heard, for instance, that the wise men of old came to these  mountains to find bright stones, pretty playthings, and yellow iron."    "My lord is wise," he answered coldly; "I am but a child and cannot  talk with my lord on such matters. My lord must speak with Gagool the  old, at the king's place, who is wise even as my lord," and he went  away.    So soon as he was gone I turned to the others, and pointed out the  mountains. "There are Solomon's diamond mines," I said.    Umbopa was standing with them, apparently plunged in one of the fits of 
 the pictures on the rocks, tell me? Who reared up the three Silent Ones  yonder, that gaze across the pit, tell me?" and she pointed towards the  three precipitous mountains which we had noticed on the previous night.    "Ye know not, but I know. It was a white people who were before ye are,  who shall be when ye are not, who shall eat you up and destroy you.  _Yea! yea! yea!_    "And what came they for, the White Ones, the Terrible Ones, the skilled  in magic and all learning, the strong, the unswerving? What is that  bright stone upon thy forehead, O king? Whose hands made the iron  garments upon thy breast, O king? Ye know not, but I know. I the Old  One, I the Wise One, I the _Isanusi_, the witch doctress!"    Then she turned her bald vulture-head towards us.    "What seek ye, white men of the Stars--ah, yes, of the Stars? Do ye  seek a lost one? Ye shall not find him here. He is not here. Never for  ages upon ages has a white foot pressed this land; never except once,  and I remember that he left it but to die. Ye come for bright stones; I  know it--I know it; ye shall find them when the blood is dry; but shall  ye return whence ye came, or shall ye stop with me? _Ha! ha! ha!_    "And thou, thou with the dark skin and the proud bearing," and she  pointed her skinny finger at Umbopa, "who art _thou_, and what seekest  _thou_? Not stones that shine, not yellow metal that gleams, these thou  leavest to 'white men from the Stars.' Methinks I know thee; methinks I  can smell the smell of the blood in thy heart. Strip off the girdle--"    Here the features of this extraordinary creature became convulsed, and  she fell to the ground foaming in an epileptic fit, and was carried  into the hut.    The king rose up trembling, and waved his hand. Instantly the regiments  began to file off, and in ten minutes, save for ourselves, the king,  and a few attendants, the great space was left empty.  
began to creep stealthily towards the soldiers before her. It seemed to  us that as she came their stoicism gave way, and that they shrank from  her. As for ourselves, we followed her movements with a horrible  fascination. Presently, still creeping and crouching like a dog, the  _Isanusi_ was before them. Then she halted and pointed, and again crept  on a pace or two.    Suddenly the end came. With a shriek she sprang in and touched a tall  warrior with her forked wand. Instantly two of his comrades, those  standing immediately next to him, seized the doomed man, each by one  arm, and advanced with him towards the king.    He did not resist, but we saw that he dragged his limbs as though they  were paralysed, and that his fingers, from which the spear had fallen,  were limp like those of a man newly dead.    As he came, two of the villainous executioners stepped forward to meet  him. Presently they met, and the executioners turned round, looking  towards the king as though for orders.    "_Kill!_" said the king.    "_Kill!_" squeaked Gagool.    "_Kill!_" re-echoed Scragga, with a hollow chuckle.    Almost before the words were uttered the horrible dead was done. One  man had driven his spear into the victim's heart, and to make assurance  double sure, the other had dashed out his brains with a great club.    "_One_," counted Twala the king, just like a black Madame Defarge, as  Good said, and the body was dragged a few paces away and stretched out.    Hardly was the thing done before another poor wretch was brought up,  like an ox to the slaughter. This time we could see, from the  leopard-skin cloak which he wore, that the man was a person of rank.  Again the awful syllables were spoken, and the victim fell dead.    "_Two_," counted the king.    And so the deadly game went on, till about a hundred bodies were  stretched in rows behind us. I have heard of the gladiatorial shows of  the Cæsars, and of the Spanish bull-fights, but I take the liberty of  doubting if either of them could be half so horrible as this Kukuana 
 too, thou black one; if Gagool here had won her way, thou wouldst have  been stiff and cold by now. It is lucky for thee that thou too camest  from the Stars; ha! ha!"    "I can kill thee before thou killest me, O king," was Ignosi's calm  answer, "and thou shalt be stiff before my limbs cease to bend."    Twala started. "Thou speakest boldly, boy," he replied angrily;  "presume not too far."    "He may well be bold in whose lips are truth. The truth is a sharp  spear which flies home and misses not. It is a message from 'the  Stars,' O king."    Twala scowled, and his one eye gleamed fiercely, but he said nothing  more.    "Let the dance begin," he cried, and then the flower-crowned girls  sprang forward in companies, singing a sweet song and waving the  delicate palms and white lilies. On they danced, looking faint and  spiritual in the soft, sad light of the risen moon; now whirling round  and round, now meeting in mimic warfare, swaying, eddying here and  there, coming forward, falling back in an ordered confusion delightful  to witness. At last they paused, and a beautiful young woman sprang out  of the ranks and began to pirouette in front of us with a grace and  vigour which would have put most ballet girls to shame. At length she  retired exhausted, and another took her place, then another and  another, but none of them, either in grace, skill, or personal  attractions, came up to the first.    When the chosen girls had all danced, the king lifted his hand.    "Which deem ye the fairest, white men?" he asked.    "The first," said I unthinkingly. Next second I regretted it, for I  remembered that Infadoos had told us that the fairest woman must be  offered up as a sacrifice.    "Then is my mind as your minds, and my eyes as your eyes. She is the  fairest! and a sorry thing it is for her, for she must die!"    "_Ay, must die!_" piped out Gagool, casting a glance of her quick eyes  in the direction of the poor girl, who, as yet ignorant of the awful 
Infadoos and the chiefs calculated, had at least thirty to thirty-five  thousand on whom he could rely at present assembled in Loo, and they  thought that by midday on the morrow he would be able to gather another  five thousand or more to his aid. It was, of course, possible that some  of his troops would desert and come over to us, but it was not a  contingency which could be reckoned on. Meanwhile, it was clear that  active preparations were being made by Twala to subdue us. Already  strong bodies of armed men were patrolling round and round the foot of  the hill, and there were other signs also of coming assault.    Infadoos and the chiefs, however, were of opinion that no attack would  take place that day, which would be devoted to preparation and to the  removal of every available means of the moral effect produced upon the  minds of the soldiery by the supposed magical darkening of the moon.  The onslaught would be on the morrow, they said, and they proved to be  right.    Meanwhile, we set to work to strengthen the position in all ways  possible. Almost every man was turned out, and in the course of the  day, which seemed far too short, much was done. The paths up the  hill--that was rather a sanatorium than a fortress, being used  generally as the camping place of regiments suffering from recent  service in unhealthy portions of the country--were carefully blocked  with masses of stones, and every other approach was made as impregnable  as time would allow. Piles of boulders were collected at various spots  to be rolled down upon an advancing enemy, stations were appointed to  the different regiments, and all preparation was made which our joint  ingenuity could suggest.    Just before sundown, as we rested after our toil, we perceived a small  company of men advancing towards us from the direction of Loo, one of  whom bore a palm leaf in his hand for a sign that he came as a herald.    As he drew near, Ignosi, Infadoos, one or two chiefs and ourselves,  went down to the foot of the mountain to meet him. He was a 
 disposition to invest us, with the view of starving us out."    "That's awkward."    "Yes; especially as Infadoos says that the water supply has given out."    "My lord, that is so," said Infadoos; "the spring cannot supply the  wants of so great a multitude, and it is failing rapidly. Before night  we shall all be thirsty. Listen, Macumazahn. Thou art wise, and hast  doubtless seen many wars in the lands from whence thou camest--that is  if indeed they make wars in the Stars. Now tell us, what shall we do?  Twala has brought up many fresh men to take the place of those who have  fallen. Yet Twala has learnt his lesson; the hawk did not think to find  the heron ready; but our beak has pierced his breast; he fears to  strike at us again. We too are wounded, and he will wait for us to die;  he will wind himself round us like a snake round a buck, and fight the  fight of 'sit down.'"    "I hear thee," I said.    "So, Macumazahn, thou seest we have no water here, and but a little  food, and we must choose between these three things--to languish like a  starving lion in his den, or to strive to break away towards the north,  or"--and here he rose and pointed towards the dense mass of our  foes--"to launch ourselves straight at Twala's throat. Incubu, the  great warrior--for to-day he fought like a buffalo in a net, and  Twala's soldiers went down before his axe like young corn before the  hail; with these eyes I saw it--Incubu says 'Charge'; but the Elephant  is ever prone to charge. Now what says Macumazahn, the wily old fox,  who has seen much, and loves to bite his enemy from behind? The last  word is in Ignosi the king, for it is a king's right to speak of war;  but let us hear thy voice, O Macumazahn, who watchest by night, and the  voice too of him of the transparent eye."    "What sayest thou, Ignosi," I asked.    "Nay, my father," answered our quondam servant, who now, clad as he was  in the full panoply of savage war, looked every inch a warrior king, 
predicted would be the case, had fixed their attention on the bloody  struggle which was raging round the remnant of the Greys and that of  the Buffaloes, who were now carrying on a battle of their own at a  little distance, which two regiments had formed the chest of our army.  It was not until our horns were about to close upon them that they had  dreamed of their approach, for they believed these forces to be hidden  in reserve upon the crest of the moon-shaped hill. And now, before they  could even assume a proper formation for defence, the outflanking  _Impis_ had leapt, like greyhounds, on their flanks.    In five minutes the fate of the battle was decided. Taken on both  flanks, and dismayed at the awful slaughter inflicted upon them by the  Greys and Buffaloes, Twala's regiments broke into flight, and soon the  whole plain between us and Loo was scattered with groups of running  soldiers making good their retreat. As for the hosts that had so  recently surrounded us and the Buffaloes, they melted away as though by  magic, and presently we were left standing there like a rock from which  the sea has retreated. But what a sight it was! Around us the dead and  dying lay in heaped-up masses, and of the gallant Greys there remained  but ninety-five men upon their feet. More than three thousand four  hundred had fallen in this one regiment, most of them never to rise  again.    "Men," said Infadoos calmly, as between the intervals of binding a  wound on his arm he surveyed what remained to him of his corps, "ye  have kept up the reputation of your regiment, and this day's fighting  will be well spoken of by your children's children." Then he turned  round and shook Sir Henry Curtis by the hand. "Thou art a great  captain, Incubu," he said simply; "I have lived a long life among  warriors, and have known many a brave one, yet have I never seen a man  like unto thee."    At this moment the Buffaloes began to march past our position on the  road to Loo, and as they went a message was brought to us from Ignosi 
 mound; and now again I saw Twala's plumed and gory head roll past my  feet with gnashing teeth and glaring eye.    At last, somehow or other, the night passed away; but when dawn broke I  found that my companions had slept no better than myself. Good, indeed,  was in a high fever, and very soon afterwards began to grow  light-headed, and also, to my alarm, to spit blood, the result, no  doubt, of some internal injury, inflicted during the desperate efforts  made by the Kukuana warrior on the previous day to force his big spear  through the chain armour. Sir Henry, however, seemed pretty fresh,  notwithstanding his wound on the face, which made eating difficult and  laughter an impossibility, though he was so sore and stiff that he  could scarcely stir.    About eight o'clock we had a visit from Infadoos, who appeared but  little the worse--tough old warrior that he was--for his exertions in  the battle, although he informed us that he had been up all night. He  was delighted to see us, but much grieved at Good's condition, and  shook our hands cordially. I noticed, however, that he addressed Sir  Henry with a kind of reverence, as though he were something more than  man; and, indeed, as we afterwards found out, the great Englishman was  looked on throughout Kukuanaland as a supernatural being. No man, the  soldiers said, could have fought as he fought or, at the end of a day  of such toil and bloodshed, could have slain Twala, who, in addition to  being the king, was supposed to be the strongest warrior in the  country, in single combat, shearing through his bull-neck at a stroke.  Indeed, that stroke became proverbial in Kukuanaland, and any  extraordinary blow or feat of strength was henceforth known as  "Incubu's blow."    Infadoos told us also that all Twala's regiments had submitted to  Ignosi, and that like submissions were beginning to arrive from chiefs  in the outlying country. Twala's death at the hands of Sir Henry had  put an end to all further chance of disturbance; for Scragga had been  his only legitimate son, so there was no rival claimant to the throne  left alive. 
figures before us might represent these false and exploded divinities.    "Hum," said Sir Henry, who is a scholar, having taken a high degree in  classics at college, "there may be something in that; Ashtoreth of the  Hebrews was the Astarte of the Phoenicians, who were the great traders  of Solomon's time. Astarte, who afterwards became the Aphrodite of the  Greeks, was represented with horns like the half-moon, and there on the  brow of the female figure are distinct horns. Perhaps these Colossi  were designed by some Phoenician official who managed the mines. Who  can say?"[1]    Before we had finished examining these extraordinary relics of remote  antiquity, Infadoos came up, and having saluted the "Silent Ones" by  lifting his spear, asked us if we intended entering the "Place of  Death" at once, or if we would wait till after we had taken food at  mid-day. If we were ready to go at once, Gagool had announced her  willingness to guide us. As it was not later than eleven  o'clock--driven to it by a burning curiosity--we announced our  intention of proceeding instantly, and I suggested that, in case we  should be detained in the cave, we should take some food with us.  Accordingly Gagool's litter was brought up, and that lady herself  assisted out of it. Meanwhile Foulata, at my request, stored some  "biltong," or dried game-flesh, together with a couple of gourds of  water, in a reed basket with a hinged cover. Straight in front of us,  at a distance of some fifty paces from the backs of the Colossi, rose a  sheer wall of rock, eighty feet or more in height, that gradually  sloped upwards till it formed the base of the lofty snow-wreathed peak,  which soared into the air three thousand feet above us. As soon as she  was clear of her hammock, Gagool cast one evil grin upon us, and then,  leaning on a stick, hobbled off towards the face of this wall. We  followed her till we came to a narrow portal solidly arched that looked  like the opening of a gallery of a mine.    Here Gagool was waiting for us, still with that evil grin upon her  horrid face. 
   Here Foulata, who had been in a state of great fear and agitation  throughout, said that she felt faint and could go no farther, but would  wait there. Accordingly we set her down on the unfinished wall, placing  the basket of provisions by her side, and left her to recover.    Following the passage for about fifteen paces farther, we came suddenly  to an elaborately painted wooden door. It was standing wide open.  Whoever was last there had either not found the time to shut it, or had  forgotten to do so.    _Across the threshold of this door lay a skin bag, formed of a  goat-skin, that appeared to be full of pebbles._    "_Hee! hee!_ white men," sniggered Gagool, as the light from the lamp  fell upon it. "What did I tell you, that the white man who came here  fled in haste, and dropped the woman's bag--behold it! Look within also  and ye will find a water-gourd amongst the stones."    Good stooped down and lifted it. It was heavy and jingled.    "By Jove! I believe it's full of diamonds," he said, in an awed  whisper; and, indeed, the idea of a small goat-skin full of diamonds is  enough to awe anybody.    "Go on," said Sir Henry impatiently. "Here, old lady, give me the  lamp," and taking it from Gagool's hand, he stepped through the doorway  and held it high above his head.    We pressed in after him, forgetful for the moment of the bag of  diamonds, and found ourselves in King Solomon's treasure chamber.    At first, all that the somewhat faint light given by the lamp revealed  was a room hewn out of the living rock, and apparently not more than  ten feet square. Next there came into sight, stored one on the other to  the arch of the roof, a splendid collection of elephant-tusks. How many  of them there were we did not know, for of course we could not see to  what depth they went back, but there could not have been less than the  ends of four or five hundred tusks of the first quality visible to our  
Needless to say we scrambled towards him quickly enough.    "Quatermain, put your hand here where mine is. Now, do you feel  anything?"    "I _think_ I feel air coming up."    "Now listen." He rose and stamped upon the place, and a flame of hope  shot up in our hearts. _It rang hollow._    With trembling hands I lit a match. I had only three left, and we saw  that we were in the angle of the far corner of the chamber, a fact that  accounted for our not having noticed the hollow sound of the place  during our former exhaustive examination. As the match burnt we  scrutinised the spot. There was a join in the solid rock floor, and,  great heavens! there, let in level with the rock, was a stone ring. We  said no word, we were too excited, and our hearts beat too wildly with  hope to allow us to speak. Good had a knife, at the back of which was  one of those hooks that are made to extract stones from horses' hoofs.  He opened it, and scratched round the ring with it. Finally he worked  it under, and levered away gently for fear of breaking the hook. The  ring began to move. Being of stone it had not rusted fast in all the  centuries it had lain there, as would have been the case had it been of  iron. Presently it was upright. Then he thrust his hands into it and  tugged with all his force, but nothing budged.    "Let me try," I said impatiently, for the situation of the stone, right  in the angle of the corner, was such that it was impossible for two to  pull at once. I took hold and strained away, but no results.    Then Sir Henry tried and failed.    Taking the hook again, Good scratched all round the crack where we felt  the air coming up.    "Now, Curtis," he said, "tackle on, and put your back into it; you are  as strong as two. Stop," and he took off a stout black silk  handkerchief, which, true to his habits of neatness, he still wore, and  ran it through the ring. "Quatermain, get Curtis round the middle and 
 stones; now ye would go to Natal and across the moving black water and  sell them, and be rich, as it is the desire of a white man's heart to  be. Cursed for your sake be the white stones, and cursed he who seeks  them. Death shall it be to him who sets foot in the place of Death to  find them. I have spoken. White men, ye can go."    I laid my hand upon his arm. "Ignosi," I said, "tell us, when thou  didst wander in Zululand, and among the white people of Natal, did not  thine heart turn to the land thy mother told thee of, thy native place,  where thou didst see the light, and play when thou wast little, the  land where thy place was?"    "It was even so, Macumazahn."    "In like manner, Ignosi, do our hearts turn to our land and to our own  place."    Then came a silence. When Ignosi broke it, it was in a different voice.    "I do perceive that now as ever thy words are wise and full of reason,  Macumazahn; that which flies in the air loves not to run along the  ground; the white man loves not to live on the level of the black or to  house among his kraals. Well, ye must go, and leave my heart sore,  because ye will be as dead to me, since from where ye are no tidings  can come to me.    "But listen, and let all your brothers know my words. No other white  man shall cross the mountains, even if any man live to come so far. I  will see no traders with their guns and gin. My people shall fight with  the spear, and drink water, like their forefathers before them. I will  have no praying-men to put a fear of death into men's hearts, to stir  them up against the law of the king, and make a path for the white folk  who follow to run on. If a white man comes to my gates I will send him  back; if a hundred come I will push them back; if armies come, I will  make war on them with all my strength, and they shall not prevail 
