with a shot-gun as with an eight-bore rifle. We were three guns that  day, Sir Henry Curtis, Old Quatermain, and myself; but Sir Henry was  obliged to leave in the middle of the afternoon in order to meet  his agent, and inspect an outlying farm where a new shed was wanted.  However, he was coming back to dinner, and going to bring Captain Good  with him, for Brayley Hall was not more than two miles from the Grange.    We had met with very fair sport, considering that we were only  going through outlying cover for cocks. I think that we had killed  twenty-seven, a woodcock and a leash of partridges which we secured  out of a driven covey. On our way home there lay a long narrow spinney,  which was a very favourite “lie” for woodcocks, and generally held a  pheasant or two as well.    “Well, what do you say?” said old Quatermain, “shall we beat through  this for a finish?”    I assented, and he called to the keeper who was following with a little  knot of beaters, and told him to beat the spinney.    “Very well, sir,” answered the man, “but it’s getting wonderful dark,  and the wind’s rising a gale. It will take you all your time to hit a  woodcock if the spinney holds one.”    “You show us the woodcocks, Jeffries,” answered Quatermain quickly, for  he never liked being crossed in anything to do with sport, “and we will  look after shooting them.”    The man turned and went rather sulkily. I heard him say to the  under-keeper, “He’s pretty good, the master is, I’m not saying he isn’t,  but if he kills a woodcock in this light and wind, I’m a Dutchman.”    I think that Quatermain heard him too, though he said nothing. The wind  was rising every minute, and by the time the beat begun it blew big  guns. I stood at the right-hand corner of the spinney, which curved  round somewhat, and Quatermain stood at the left, about forty paces from  me. Presently an old cock pheasant came rocketing over me, looking as  though the feathers were being blown out of his tail. I missed him clean 
 mind, had conceived the idea of running a store at Pretoria upon  strictly cash principles. The arrangement was that I should find  the capital and he the experience. Our partnership was not of a long  duration. The Boers refused to pay cash, and at the end of four months  my partner had the capital and I had the experience. After this I came  to the conclusion that store-keeping was not in my line, and having  four hundred pounds left, I sent my boy Harry to a school in Natal, and  buying an outfit with what remained of the money, started upon a big  trip.    “This time I determined to go further afield than I had ever been  before; so I took a passage for a few pounds in a trading brig that  ran between Durban and Delagoa Bay. From Delagoa Bay I marched inland  accompanied by twenty porters, with the idea of striking up north,  towards the Limpopo, and keeping parallel to the coast, but at a  distance of about one hundred and fifty miles from it. For the first  twenty days of our journey we suffered a good deal from fever, that is,  my men did, for I think that I am fever proof. Also I was hard put to  it to keep the camp in meat, for although the country proved to be very  sparsely populated, there was but little game about. Indeed, during all  that time I hardly killed anything larger than a waterbuck, and, as you  know, waterbuck’s flesh is not very appetising food. On the twentieth  day, however, we came to the banks of a largish river, the Gonooroo it  was called. This I crossed, and then struck inland towards a great range  of mountains, the blue crests of which we could see lying on the distant  heavens like a shadow, a continuation, as I believe, of the Drakensberg  range that skirts the coast of Natal. From this main range a great spur  shoots out some fifty miles or so towards the coast, ending abruptly in  one tremendous peak. This spur I discovered separated the territories of  two chiefs named Nala and Wambe, Wambe’s territory being to the north,  and Nala’s to the south. Nala ruled a tribe of bastard Zulus called 
about, before looking for traces of elephants. Not more than half a mile  from camp we came across a trail broad as a cart-road, evidently made by  a great herd of buffaloes which had passed up at dawn from their feeding  ground in the marshes, to spend the day in the cool air of the uplands.  This trail I followed boldly; for such wind as there was blew straight  down the mountain-side, that is, from the direction in which the  buffaloes had gone, to me. About a mile further on the forest began to  be dense, and the nature of the trail showed me that I must be close to  my game. Another two hundred yards and the bush was so thick that, had  it not been for the trail, we could scarcely have passed through it.  As it was, Gobo, who carried my eight-bore rifle (for I had the  .570-express in my hand), and the other two men whom I had taken with  me, showed the very strongest dislike to going any further, pointing  out that there was ‘no room to run away.’ I told them that they need  not come unless they liked, but that I was certainly going on; and then,  growing ashamed, they came.    “Another fifty yards, and the trail opened into a little glade. I knelt  down and peeped and peered, but no buffalo could I see. Evidently the  herd had broken up here--I knew that from the spoor--and penetrated the  opposite bush in little troops. I crossed the glade, and choosing one  line of spoor, followed it for some sixty yards, when it became clear  to me that I was surrounded by buffaloes; and yet so dense was the  cover that I could not see any. A few yards to my left I could hear one  rubbing its horns against a tree, while from my right came an occasional  low and throaty grunt which told me that I was uncomfortably near an  old bull. I crept on towards him with my heart in my mouth, as gently as  though I were walking upon eggs for a bet, lifting every little bit of  wood in my path, and placing it behind me lest it should crack and warn 
 he was dragged forth uninjured, though in a very pious and prayerful  frame of mind. His ‘spirit had certainly looked that way,’ he said,  or he would now have been dead. As I never like to interfere with true  piety, I did not venture to suggest that his spirit had deigned to make  use of my eight-bore in his interest.    “Having despatched this boy back to the camp to tell the bearers to come  and cut the buffalo up, I bethought me that I owed that rhinoceros a  grudge which I should love to repay. So without saying a word of what  was in my mind to Gobo, who was now more than ever convinced that Fate  walked about loose in Wambe’s country, I just followed on the brute’s  spoor. He had crashed through the bush till he reached the little glade.  Then moderating his pace somewhat, he had followed the glade down its  entire length, and once more turned to the right through the forest,  shaping his course for the open land that lies between the edge of the  bush and the river. Having followed him for a mile or so further, I  found myself quite on the open. I took out my glasses and searched  the plain. About a mile ahead was something brown--as I thought, the  rhinoceros. I advanced another quarter of a mile, and looked once  more--it was not the rhinoceros, but a big ant-heap. This was puzzling,  but I did not like to give it up, because I knew from his spoor that he  must be somewhere ahead. But as the wind was blowing straight from me  towards the line that he had followed, and as a rhinoceros can smell you  for about a mile, it would not, I felt, be safe to follow his trail  any further; so I made a détour of a mile and more, till I was nearly  opposite the ant-heap, and then once more searched the plain. It was no  good, I could see nothing of him, and was about to give it up and start  after some oryx I saw on the skyline, when suddenly at a distance of  about three hundred yards from the ant-heap, and on its further side, I 
could do was to bound to one side, which I did with surprising activity,  and as he brushed past me to fire the other barrel into his side. That  did for him. The ball passed in behind the shoulder and right through  his heart. He fell over on to his side, gave one more awful squeal--a  dozen pigs could not have made such a noise--and promptly died, keeping  his wicked eyes wide open all the time.    “As for me, I blew my nose, and going up to the rhinoceros sat on his  head, and reflected that I had done a capital morning’s shooting.”          III--THE FIRST ROUND    “After this, as it was now midday, and I had killed enough meat, we  marched back triumphantly to camp, where I proceeded to concoct a stew  of buffalo beef and compressed vegetables. When this was ready we ate  the stew, and then I took a nap. About four o’clock, however, Gobo  woke me up, and told me that the head man of one of Wambe’s kraals had  arrived to see me. I ordered him to be brought up, and presently he  came, a little, wizened, talkative old man, with a waistcloth round his  middle, and a greasy, frayed kaross made of the skins of rock rabbits  over his shoulders.    “I told him to sit down, and then abused him roundly. ‘What did he  mean,’ I asked, ‘by disturbing me in this rude way? How did he dare to  cause a person of my quality and evident importance to be awakened in  order to interview his entirely contemptible self?’    “I spoke thus because I knew that it would produce an impression on him.  Nobody, except a really great man, he would argue, would dare to speak  to him in that fashion. Most savages are desperate bullies at heart, and  look on insolence as a sign of power.    “The old man instantly collapsed. He was utterly overcome, he said;  his heart was split in two, and well realized the extent of his  misbehaviour. But the occasion was very urgent. He heard that a mighty  hunter was in the neighbourhood, a beautiful white man, how beautiful 
 hunters and gun-bearers, that he must have seen or heard something. I  looked at his face, and saw that he was staring excitedly towards the  dim edge of the bush beyond the deep green line of mealies. I stared  too, and listened. Presently I heard a soft large sound as though a  giant were gently stretching out his hands and pressing back the ears  of standing corn. Then came a pause, and then, out into the open  majestically stalked the largest elephant I ever saw or ever shall see.  Heavens! what a monster he was; and how the moonlight gleamed upon his  one splendid tusk--for the other was missing--as he stood among the  mealies gently moving his enormous ears to and fro, and testing the  wind with his trunk. While I was still marvelling at his girth, and  speculating upon the weight of that huge tusk, which I swore should be  my tusk before very long, out stepped a second bull and stood beside  him. He was not quite so tall, but he seemed to me to be almost  thicker-set than the first; and even in that light I could see that both  his tusks were perfect. Another pause, and the third emerged. He was  shorter than either of the others, but higher in the shoulder than No.  2; and when I tell you, as I afterwards learnt from actual measurement,  that the smallest of these mighty bulls measured twelve feet one and a  half inches at the shoulder, it will give you some idea of their size.  The three formed into line and stood still for a minute, the one-tusked  bull gently caressing the elephant on the left with his trunk.    “Then they began to feed, walking forward and slightly to the right as  they gathered great bunches of the sweet mealies and thrust them into  their mouths. All this time they were more than a hundred and twenty  yards away from me (this I knew, because I had paced the distances from  the tree to various points), much too far to allow of my attempting  a shot at them in that uncertain light. They fed in a semicircle,  gradually drawing round towards the hut near my tree, in which the corn 
my friend, and getting him by the ear, I banged his head against the  doorway of his own hut, which was all that was left of it.    “‘You wicked old scoundrel,’ I said, ‘you dare to complain about your  own trifling inconveniences, when you gave me a rotten beam to sit on,  and thereby delivered me to the fury of the elephant’ (_bump! bump!  bump!_), ‘when your own wife’ (_bump!_) ‘has just been dragged out  of her hut’ (_bump!_) ‘like a snail from its shell, and thrown by the  Earth-shaker into a tree’ (_bump! bump!_).    “‘Mercy, my father, mercy!’ gasped the old fellow. ‘Truly I have done  amiss--my heart tells me so.’    “‘I should hope it did, you old villain’ (_bump!_).    “‘Mercy, great white man! I thought the log was sound. But what says the  unequalled chief--is the old woman, my wife, indeed dead? Ah, if she is  dead all may yet prove to have been for the very best;’ and he clasped  his hands and looked up piously to heaven, in which the moon was once  more shining brightly.    “I let go his ear and burst out laughing, the whole scene and his devout  aspirations for the decease of the partner of his joys, or rather woes,  were so intensely ridiculous.    “‘No, you old iniquity,’ I answered; ‘I left her in the top of a  thorn-tree, screaming like a thousand bluejays. The elephant put her  there.’    “‘Alas! alas!’ he said, ‘surely the back of the ox is shaped to the  burden. Doubtless, my father, she will come down when she is tired;’ and  without troubling himself further about the matter, he began to blow at  the smouldering embers of the fire.    “And, as a matter of fact, she did appear a few minutes later,  considerably scratched and startled, but none the worse.    “After that I made my way to my little camp, which, fortunately, the  elephants had not walked over, and wrapping myself up in a blanket, was  soon fast asleep.    “And so ended my first round with those three elephants.”        
 to start in search of game. At any rate, as though moved by a common  impulse, they bounded suddenly away, leap by leap, and vanished in the  depths of the forest to the left. I waited for a little while longer to  see if there were any more yellow skins about, and seeing none, came to  the conclusion that the lions must have frightened the elephants away,  and that I had taken my stroll for nothing. But just as I was turning  back I thought that I heard a bough break upon the further side of the  glade, and, rash as the act was, I followed the sound. I crossed the  glade as silently as my own shadow. On its further side the path went  on. Albeit with many fears, I went on too. The jungle growth was so  thick here that it almost met overhead, leaving so small a passage for  the light that I could scarcely see to grope my way along. Presently,  however, it widened, and then opened into a second glade slightly  smaller than the first, and there, on the further side of it, about  eighty yards from me, stood the three enormous elephants.    “They stood thus:--Immediately opposite and facing me was the wounded  one-tusked bull. He was leaning his bulk against a dead thorn-tree, the  only one in the place, and looked very sick indeed. Near him stood the  second bull as though keeping a watch over him. The third elephant was  a good deal nearer to me and broadside on. While I was still staring at  them, this elephant suddenly walked off and vanished down a path in the  bush to the right.    “There are now two things to be done--either I could go back to the camp  and advance upon the elephants at dawn, or I could attack them at once.  The first was, of course, by far the wiser and safer course. To engage  one elephant by moonlight and single-handed is a sufficiently rash  proceeding; to tackle three was little short of lunacy. But, on  the other hand, I knew that they would be on the march again before  daylight, and there might come another day of weary trudging before I 
dead? I rose on my hands and knees, loaded my rifle, and painfully crept  a few paces nearer. I could see his eye now, for the moonlight fell full  upon it--it was open, and rather prominent. I crouched and watched; the  eyelid did not move, nor did the great brown body, or the trunk, or the  ear, or the tail--nothing moved. Then I knew that he must be dead.    “I crept up to him, still keeping the rifle well forward, and gave him a  thump, reflecting as I did so how very near I had been to being thumped  instead of thumping. He never stirred; certainly he was dead, though to  this day I do not know if it was my random shot that killed him, or  if he died from concussion of the brain consequent upon the tremendous  shock of his contact with the tree. Anyhow, there he was. Cold and  beautiful he lay, or rather knelt, as the poet nearly puts it. Indeed, I  do not think that I have ever seen a sight more imposing in its way than  that of the mighty beast crouched in majestic death, and shone upon by  the lonely moon.    “While I stood admiring the scene, and heartily congratulating myself  upon my escape, once more I began to feel sick. Accordingly, without  waiting to examine the other two bulls, I staggered back to the camp,  which in due course I reached in safety. Everybody in it was asleep. I  did not wake them, but having swallowed a mouthful of brandy I threw  off my coat and shoes, rolled myself up in a blanket, and was soon fast  asleep.    “When I woke it was already light, and at first I thought that, like  Joseph, I had dreamed a dream. At that moment, however, I turned my  head, and quickly knew that it was no dream, for my neck and face were  so stiff from the blow of the butt-end of the rifle that it was agony  to move them. I collapsed for a minute or two. Gobo and another man,  wrapped up like a couple of monks in their blankets, thinking that I was  still asleep, were crouched over a little fire they had made, for the 
 otherwise we could not have carried it.”    [*] The largest elephant tusk of which the Editor has any  certain knowledge scaled one hundred and fifty pounds.    “Oh, Quatermain, you barbarian!” I broke in here, “the idea of spoiling  such a tusk! Why, I would have kept it whole if I had been obliged to  drag it myself.”    “Oh yes, young man,” he answered, “it is all very well for you to talk  like that, but if you had found yourself in the position which it was  my privilege to occupy a few hours afterwards, it is my belief that you  would have thrown the tusks away altogether and taken to your heels.”    “Oh,” said Good, “so that isn’t the end of the yarn? A very good yarn,  Quatermain, by the way--I couldn’t have made up a better one myself.”    The old gentleman looked at Good severely, for it irritated him to be  chaffed about his stories.    “I don’t know what you mean, Good. I don’t see that there is any  comparison between a true story of adventure and the preposterous tales  which you invent about ibex hanging by their horns. No, it is not the  end of the story; the most exciting part is to come. But I have talked  enough for to-night; and if you go on in that way, Good, it will be some  time before I begin again.”    “Sorry I spoke, I’m sure,” said Good, humbly. “Let’s have a split to  show that there is no ill-feeling.” And they did.          V--THE MESSAGE OF MAIWA    On the following evening we once more dined together, and Quatermain,  after some pressure, was persuaded to continue his story--for Good’s  remark still rankled in his breast.    “At last,” he went on, “a few minutes before sunset, the task was  finished. We had laboured at it all day, stopping only once for dinner,  for it is no easy matter to hew out five such tusks as those which  now lay before me in a white and gleaming line. It was a dinner worth 
to leave you there while there is a chance of getting you out. I have  played fox before now--there’s still a double or two left in me. I must  make a plan, that’s all. And then there’s that stockade of tusks. I am  not going to leave that either.’ Then I spoke to the woman.    “‘You are called Maiwa?’    “‘It is so.’    “‘You are the daughter of Nala and the wife of Wambe?’    “‘It is so.’    “‘You fly from Wambe to Nala?’    “‘I do.’    “‘Why do you fly? Stay, I would give an order,’--and calling to Gobo, I  ordered him to get the men ready for instant departure. The woman, who,  as I have said, was quite young and very handsome, put her hand into  a little pouch made of antelope hide which she wore fastened round the  waist, and to my horror drew from it the withered hand of a child, which  evidently had been carefully dried in the smoke.    “‘I fly for this cause,’ she answered, holding the poor little hand  towards me. ‘See now, I bore a child. Wambe was its father, and for  eighteen months the child lived and I loved it. But Wambe loves not his  children; he kills them all. He fears lest they should grow up to slay  one so wicked, and he would have killed this child also, but I begged  its life. One day, some soldiers passing the hut saw the child and  saluted him, calling him the “chief who soon shall be.” Wambe heard,  and was mad. He smote the babe, and it wept. Then he said that it should  weep for good cause. Among the things that he had stolen from the white  men whom he slew is a trap that will hold lions. So strong is the trap  that four men must stand on it, two on either side, before it can be  opened.’”      Here old Quatermain broke off suddenly.    “Look here, you fellows,” he said, “I can’t bear to go on with this part  of the story, because I never could stand either seeing or talking of 
   “At the top of this slope Maiwa halted, and putting her hand over her  eyes looked back. Presently she touched me on the arm and pointed across  the sea of forest towards a comparatively vacant space of country some  six or seven miles away. I looked, and suddenly I saw something flash in  the red rays of the setting sun. A pause, and then another quick flash.    “‘What is it?’ I asked.    “‘It is the spears of Wambe’s impi, and they travel fast,’ she answered  coolly.    “I suppose that my face showed how little I liked the news, for she went  on--    “‘Fear not; they will stay to feast upon the elephants, and while they  feast we shall journey. We may yet escape.’    “After that we turned and pushed on again, till at length it grew so  dark that we had to wait for the rising of the moon, which lost us  time, though it gave us rest. Fortunately none of the men had seen that  ominous flashing of the spears; if they had, I doubt if even I could  have kept control of them. As it was, they travelled faster than I had  ever known loaded natives to go before, so thorough-paced was their  desire to see the last of Wambe’s country. I, however, took the  precaution to march last of all, fearing lest they should throw away  their loads to lighten themselves, or, worse still, the tusks; for these  kind of fellows would be capable of throwing anything away if their own  skins were at stake. If the pious Æneas, whose story you were reading  to me the other night, had been a mongrel Delagoa Bay native, Anchises  would have had a poor chance of getting out of Troy, that is, if he was  known to have made a satisfactory will.    “At moonrise we set out again, and with short occasional halts travelled  till dawn, when we were forced to rest and eat. Starting once more,  about half-past five, we crossed the river at noon. Then began the long  toilsome ascent through thick bush, the same in which I shot the bull  buffalo, only some twenty miles to the west of that spot, and not more 
with a tremendous yell. By this time the two halves of the single tusk  of the great bull alone remained to be passed up. I fired and fired as  effectively as before, but notwithstanding all that I could do, some men  escaped my hail of bullets and began to ascend the cliff. Presently  my rifle was again empty. I slung it over my back, and, drawing my  revolver, turned to run for it, the attackers being now quite close. As  I did so, a spear struck the cliff close to my head.    “The last half of the tusk was now vanishing over the rock, and I sung  out to Gobo and the other man who had been pushing it up to vanish after  it. Gobo, poor fellow, required no second invitation; indeed, his haste  was his undoing. He went at the projecting rock with a bound. The end  of the tusk was still hanging over, and instead of grasping the rock he  caught at it. It twisted in his hand--he slipped--he fell; with one wild  shriek he vanished into the abyss beneath, his falling body brushing me  as it passed. For a moment we stood aghast, and presently the dull thud  of his fall smote heavily upon our ears. Poor fellow, he had met the  Fate which, as he declared, walked about loose in Wambe’s country. Then  with an oath the remaining man sprung at the rock and clambered over it  in safety. Aghast at the awfulness of what had happened, I stood still,  till I saw the great blade of a Matuku spear pass up between my feet.  That brought me to my senses, and I began to clamber up the rock like  a cat. I was half way round it. Already I had clasped the hand of that  brave girl Maiwa, who came down to help me, the men having scrambled  forward with the ivory, when I felt some one seize my ankle.    “‘Pull, Maiwa, pull,’ I gasped, and she certainly did pull. Maiwa was a  very muscular woman, and never before did I appreciate the advantages  of the physical development of females so keenly. She tugged at my left  arm, the savage below tugged at my right leg, till I began to realize 
 “‘Thus shalt thou answer,’ I said after reflection; ‘say that the woman  shall be sent and I with her, and then bid the messengers be gone. Stay,  I will hide myself here in the hut that the men may not see me,’ and I  did.    “Shortly afterwards, through a crack in the hut, I saw the messengers  arrive, and they were great truculent-looking fellows. There were four  of them, and evidently they had travelled night and day. They entered  with a swagger and squatted down before Nala.    “‘Your business?’ said Nala, frowning.    “‘We come from Wambe, bearing the orders of Wambe to Nala his servant,’  answered the spokesman of the party.    “‘Speak,’ said Nala, with a curious twitch of his nervous-looking mouth.    “‘These are the words of Wambe: “Send back the woman, my wife, who has  run away from my kraal, and send with her the white man who has dared to  hunt in my country without my leave, and to slay my soldiers.” These are  the words of Wambe.’    “‘And if I say I will not send them?’ asked Nala.    “‘Then on behalf of Wambe we declare war upon you. Wambe will eat you  up. He will wipe you out; your kraals shall be stamped flat--so,’ and  with an expressive gesture he drew his hand across his mouth to show  how complete would be the annihilation of that chief who dared to defy  Wambe.    “‘These are heavy words,’ said Nala. ‘Let me take counsel before I  answer.’    “Then followed a little piece of acting that was really very creditable  to the untutored savage mind. The heralds withdrew, but not out of  sight, and Nala went through the show of earnestly consulting his  Indunas. The girl Maiwa too flung herself at his feet, and appeared to  weep and implore his protection, while he wrung his hands as though in  doubt and tribulation of mind. At length he summoned the messengers to  draw near, and addressed them, while Maiwa sobbed very realistically at  his side.    “‘Wambe is a great chief,’ said Nala, ‘and this woman is his wife, whom 
Butiana people stand up upon its tail and prosper the war, for so shall  we be rid of Wambe and the tyrannies of Wambe.’    “After that the girl Maiwa stood up, and once more producing the  dreadful little dried hand, made her father and several of his head  councillors swear by it and upon it that they would carry out the war of  vengeance to the bitter end. It was a very curious sight to see. And by  the way, the fight that ensued was thereafter known among the tribes of  that district as the War of the Little Hand.    “The next two days were busy ones for us. Messengers were sent out,  and every available man of the Butiana tribe was ordered up to ‘a great  dance.’ The country was small, and by the evening of the second day,  some twelve hundred and fifty men were assembled with their assegais and  shields, and a fine hardy troop they were. At dawn of the following day,  the fourth from the departure of the heralds, the main impi, having  been doctored in the usual fashion, started under the command of Nala  himself, who, knowing that his life and chieftainship hung upon the  issue of the struggle, wisely determined to be present to direct it.  With them went Maiwa, who was to guide them up the secret path. Of  course we were obliged to give them two days’ start, as they had more  than a hundred miles of rough country to pass, including the crossing of  the great mountain range which ran north and south, for it was necessary  that the impi should make a wide détour in order to escape detection.    “At length, however, at dawn on the sixth day, I took the road,  accompanied by my most unwilling bearers, who did not at all like the  idea of thus putting their heads into the lion’s mouth. Indeed, it was  only the fear of Nala’s spears, together with a vague confidence in  myself, that induced them to accept the adventure. With me also were  about two hundred Butianas, all armed with guns of various kinds, for  many of these people had guns, though they were not very proficient in 
 “Just where we halted ran a little stream of water. I looked at it, and  an idea struck me: probably there would be no water on the koppie. I  suggested this to our captain, and, acting on the hint, he directed all  the men to drink what they could, and also to fill the seven or eight  cooking pots which we carried with us with water. Then came the crucial  moment. How were we to get possession of the koppie? When the captain  asked me, I said that I thought that we had better march up and take  it, and this accordingly we went on to do. When we came to the narrow  gateway we were, as I expected stopped by two soldiers who stood on  guard there and asked our business. The captain answered that we had  changed our minds, and would follow on to Wambe’s kraal. The soldiers  said no, we must now wait.    “To this we replied by pushing them to one side and marching in single  file through the gateway, which was not distant more than a hundred  yards from the koppie. While we were getting through, the men we had  pushed away ran towards the town calling for assistance, a call that was  promptly responded to, for in another minute we saw scores of armed men  running hard in our direction. So we ran too, for the koppie. As soon as  they understood what we were after, which they did not at first, owing  to the dimness of the light, they did their best to get there before us.  But we had the start of them, and with the exception of one unfortunate  man who stumbled and fell, we were well on to the koppie before  they arrived. This man they captured, and when fighting began on the  following morning, and he refused to give any information, they killed  him. Luckily they had no time to torture him, or they would certainly  have done so, for these Matuku people are very fond of torturing their  enemies.    “When we reached the koppie, the base of which covers about half an acre  of ground, the soldiers who had been trying to cut us off halted, for 
in this way, and wounded a third, for being at the top of the koppie  these men were most exposed to the fire from the dip at its base. Seeing  that the situation was growing most serious, at length, by the dint of  threats and entreaties, I persuaded the majority of our people to cease  firing useless shots, to reload, and prepare for the rush. Scarcely had  I done so when the enemy came for us with a roar. I am bound to say that  I should never have believed that Matukus had it in them to make such  a determined charge. A large party rushed round the base of the koppie,  and attacked us in flank, while the others swarmed wherever they could  get a foothold, so that we were taken on every side.    “‘_Fire!_’ I cried, and we did with terrible effect. Many of their men  fell, but though we checked we could not stop them. They closed up and  rushed the first fortification, killing a good number of its defenders.  It was almost all cold steel work now, for we had no time to reload, and  that suited the Butiana habits of fighting well enough, for the stabbing  assegai is a weapon which they understand. Those of our people who  escaped from the first line of walls took refuge in the second, where  I stood myself, encouraging them, and there the fight raged fiercely.  Occasionally parties of the enemy would force a passage, only to perish  on the hither side beneath the Butiana spears. But still they kept  it up, and I saw that, fight as we would, we were doomed. We were  altogether outnumbered, and to make matters worse, fresh bodies  of soldiers were pouring across the plain to the assistance of our  assailants. So I made up my mind to direct a retreat into the caves,  and there expire in a manner as heroic as circumstances would allow; and  while mentally lamenting my hard fate and reflecting on my sins I fought  away like a fiend. It was then, I remember, that I shot my friend the  captain of our escort of the previous day. He had caught sight of  me, and making a vicious dig at my stomach with a spear (which I 
 “_Crash!_ we were in them now, and fighting like demons. _Crash!_ from  the other side. Nala’s impi was at its work, and still the spears  and plumes appeared for a moment against the brown background of the  mountain, and then sprang down and rushed like a storm upon the foe.  The great mob of men turned this way and turned that way, astonished,  bewildered, overborne by doubt and terror.    “Meanwhile the slayers stayed not their hands, and on every side spears  flashed, and the fierce shout of triumph went up to heaven. There too on  the wall stood Maiwa, a white garment streaming from her shoulders, an  assegai in her hand, her breast heaving, her eyes flashing. Above all  the din of battle I could catch the tones of her clear voice as she  urged the soldiers on to victory. But victory was not yet. Wambe’s  soldiers gathered themselves together, and bore our men back by the  sheer weight of numbers. They began to give, then once more they  rallied, and the fight hung doubtfully.    “‘Slay, you war-whelps,’ cried Maiwa from the wall. ‘Are you afraid,  you women, you chicken-hearted women! Strike home, or die like dogs!  What--you give way! Follow me, children of Nala.’ And with one long cry  she leapt from the wall as leaps a stricken antelope, and holding the  spear poised rushed right into the thickest of the fray. The warriors  saw her, and raised such a shout that it echoed like thunder against the  mountains. They massed together, and following the flutter of her white  robe crashed into the dense heart of the foe. Down went the Matuku  before them like trees before a whirlwind. Nothing could stand in the  face of such a rush as that. It was as the rush of a torrent bursting  its banks. All along their line swept the wild desperate charge; and  there, straight in the forefront of the battle, still waved the white  robe of Maiwa.    “Then they broke, and, stricken with utter panic, Wambe’s soldiers  streamed away a scattered crowd of fugitives, while after them thundered  the footfall of the victors.    “The fight was over, we had won the day; and for my part I sat down upon 
“‘Kill the witches,’ roared Nala, in a voice of thunder, pointing to the  group of women.    “‘Nay,’ gasped Every, ‘spare them. He made them do it,’ and he pointed  to the human fiend in the trap. Then Maiwa waved her hand to us to  fall back, for the moment of her vengeance was come. We did so, and she  strode up to her lord, and flinging the white robe from her stood before  him, her fierce beautiful face fixed like stone.    “‘Who am I?’ she cried in so terrible a voice that he ceased his yells.  ‘Am I that woman who was given to thee for wife, and whose child thou  slewest? Or am I an avenging spirit come to see thee die?    “‘What is this?’ she went on, drawing the withered baby-hand from the  pouch at her side.    “‘Is it the hand of a babe? and how came that hand to be thus alone?  What cut it off from the babe? and where is the babe? Is it a hand? or  is it the vision of a hand that shall presently tear thy throat?    “‘Where are thy soldiers, Wambe? Do they sleep and eat and go forth to  do thy bidding? or are they perchance dead and scattered like the winter  leaves?’    “He groaned and rolled his eyes while the fierce-faced woman went on.    “‘Art thou still a chief, Wambe? or does another take thy place and  power, and say, Lord, what doest thou there? and what is that slave’s  leglet upon thy knee?    “‘Is it a dream, Wambe, great lord and chief? or’--and she lifted her  clenched hands and shook them in his face--‘hath a woman’s vengeance  found thee out and a woman’s wit o’ermatched thy tyrannous strength? and  art thou about to slowly die in torments horrible to think on, oh, thou  accursed murderer of little children?’    “And with one wild scream she dashed the dead hand of the child straight  into his face, and then fell senseless on the floor. As for the demon  in the trap, he shrank back so far as its iron bounds would allow, his 
 numbers, would be taken, and they should be hunted down.    “This advice was at once declared to be wise, and acted on. The women  were despatched, and I saw from their faces that they never expected to  get such terms, and did not think that their mission would be in vain.  Nevertheless, we spent that afternoon in preparations against possible  surprise, and also in collecting all the wounded of both parties into a  hospital, which we extemporized out of some huts, and there attending to  them as best we could.    “That evening Every had the first pipe of tobacco that he had tasted  for six years. Poor fellow, he nearly cried with joy over it. The night  passed without any sign of attack, and on the following morning we began  to see the effect of our message, for women, children, and a few men  came in in little knots, and took possession of their huts. It was of  course rather difficult to prevent our men from looting, and generally  going on as natives, and for the matter of that white men too, are in  the habit of doing after a victory. But one man who after warning was  caught maltreating a woman was brought out and killed by Nala’s order,  and though there was a little grumbling, that put a stop to further  trouble.    “On the second morning the head men and numbers of their followers came  in in groups, and about midday a deputation of the former presented  themselves before us without their weapons. They were conquered, they  said, and Wambe was dead, so they came to hear the words of the great  lion who had eaten them up, and of the crafty white man, the jackal, who  had dug a hole for them to fall in, and of Maiwa, Lady of War, who had  led the charge and turned the fate of the battle.    “So we let them hear the words, and when we had done an old man rose and  said, that in the name of the people he accepted the yoke that was laid  upon their shoulders, and that the more gladly because even the rule of  a woman could not be worse than the rule of Wambe. Moreover, they knew 
