  H. RIDER HAGGARD.    DITCHINGHAM, 1905.          AUTHOR’S NOTE    Not with a view of conciliating those readers who on principle object to  sequels, but as a matter of fact, the Author wishes to say that he does  not so regard this book.    Rather does he venture to ask that it should be considered as the  conclusion of an imaginative tragedy (if he may so call it) whereof one  half has been already published.    This conclusion it was always his desire to write should he be destined  to live through those many years which, in obedience to his original  design, must be allowed to lapse between the events of the first and  second parts of the romance.    In response to many enquiries he may add that the name Ayesha, which  since the days of the prophet Mahomet, who had a wife so called, and  perhaps before them, has been common in the East, should be pronounced  _Assha_.          INTRODUCTION    Verily and indeed it is the unexpected that happens! Probably if there  was one person upon the earth from whom the Editor of this, and of a  certain previous history, did not expect to hear again, that person was  Ludwig Horace Holly. This, too, for a good reason; he believed him to  have taken his departure from the earth.    When Mr. Holly last wrote, many, many years ago, it was to transmit the  manuscript of _She_, and to announce that he and his ward, Leo Vincey,  the beloved of the divine Ayesha, were about to travel to Central Asia  in the hope, I suppose, that there she would fulfil her promise and  appear to them again.    Often I have wondered, idly enough, what happened to them there; whether  they were dead, or perhaps droning their lives away as monks in some  Thibetan Lamasery, or studying magic and practising asceticism under  the tuition of the Eastern Masters trusting that thus they would build a  bridge by which they might pass to the side of their adored Immortal.    
 longings? You dreamed that you were alone in the vast universe. Well, is  not every living creature thus alone? You dreamed that the shadowy shape  of Ayesha came to you. Has it ever left your side? You dreamed that she  led you over sea and land, past places haunted by your memory, above the  mysterious mountains of the Unknown to an undiscovered peak. Does she  not thus lead you through life to that peak which lies beyond the Gates  of Death? You dreamed----”    “Oh! no more of it,” he exclaimed. “What I saw, I saw, and that I shall  follow. Think as you will, Horace, and do what you will. To-morrow I  start for India, with you if you choose to come; if not, without you.”    “You speak roughly, Leo,” I said. “You forget that _I_ have had no sign,  and that the nightmare of a man so near to insanity that but a few hours  ago he was determined upon suicide, will be a poor staff to lean on when  we are perishing in the snows of Central Asia. A mixed vision, this of  yours, Leo, with its mountain peak shaped like a _crux-ansata_ and the  rest. Do you suggest that Ayesha is re-incarnated in Central Asia--as a  female Grand Lama or something of that sort?”    “I never thought of it, but why not?” asked Leo quietly. “Do you  remember a certain scene in the Caves of Kor yonder, when the living  looked upon the dead, and dead and living were the same? And do you  remember what Ayesha swore, that she would come again--yes, to this  world; and how could that be except by re-birth, or, what is the same  thing, by the transmigration of the spirit?”    I did not answer this argument. I was struggling with myself.    “No sign has come to me,” I said, “and yet I have had a part in the  play, humble enough, I admit, and I believe that I have still a part.”    “No,” he said, “no sign has come to you. I wish that it had. Oh! how I  wish you could be convinced as I am, Horace!”    
  “‘The way of Love and Life!” she answered, ‘that makes all the world  to be, that made _you_, O seeker of Nirvana, and the goddess called  Nature!’    “Again I asked where is that goddess, and behold! she drew herself up,  looking most royal, and touching her ivory breast, she said, ‘I am She.  Now kneel you down and do me homage!’    “My brethren, I knelt, yes, I kissed her foot, and then I fled away  shamed and broken-hearted, and as I went she laughed, and cried:  ‘Remember me when you reach Devachan, O servant of the Budda-saint, for  though I change, I do not die, and even there I shall be with you who  once gave me worship!’    “And it is so, my brethren, it is so; for though I obtained absolution  for my sin and have suffered much for it through this, my next  incarnation, yet I cannot be rid of her, and for me the Utter Peace is  far, far away,” and Kou-en placed his withered hands before his face and  sobbed outright.    A ridiculous sight, truly, to see a holy Khublighan well on the wrong  side of eighty, weeping like a child over a dream of a beautiful woman  which he imagined he had once dreamt in his last life more than two  thousand years ago. So the reader will say. But I, Holly, for reasons  of my own, felt deep sympathy with that poor old man, and Leo was also  sympathetic. We patted him on the back; we assured him that he was  the victim of some evil hallucination which could never be brought up  against him in this or any future existence, since, if sin there were,  it must have been forgiven long ago, and so forth. When his calm was  somewhat restored we tried also to extract further information from him,  but with poor results, so far as the priestess was concerned.    He said that he did not know to what religion she belonged, and did not  care, but thought that it must be an evil one. She went away the next  morning with the army, and he never saw or heard of her any more, though 
 Or perhaps the inhabitants of the country were now stay-at-home people  who never travelled it at all.    Those slopes were longer than we thought; indeed, when darkness closed  in we had not reached the foot of them. So we were obliged to spend  another night in the snow, pitching our tent in the shelter of  an over-hanging rock. As we had descended many thousand feet, the  temperature proved, fortunately, a little milder; indeed, I do not  think that there were more than eighteen or twenty degrees of frost that  night. Also here and there the heat of the sun had melted the snow in  secluded places, so that we were able to find water to drink, while the  yak could fill its poor old stomach with dead-looking mountain mosses,  which it seemed to think better than nothing.    Again, the still dawn came, throwing its red garment over the lonesome,  endless mountains, and we dragged ourselves to our numbed feet, ate some  of our remaining food, and started onwards. Now we could no longer see  the country beneath, for it and even the towering volcano were hidden  from us by an intervening ridge that seemed to be pierced by a single  narrow gulley, towards which we headed. Indeed, as the pillars showed  us, thither ran the buried road. By mid-day it appeared quite close to  us, and we tramped on in feverish haste. As it chanced, however, there  was no need to hurry, for an hour later we learned the truth.    Between us and the mouth of the gulley rose, or rather sank, a sheer  precipice that was apparently three or four hundred feet in depth, and  at its foot we could hear the sound of water.    Right to the edge of this precipice ran the path, for one of the stone  pillars stood upon its extreme brink, and yet how could a road descend  such a place as that? We stared aghast; then a possible solution  occurred to us.    “Don’t you see,” said Leo, with a hollow laugh, “the gulf has opened  since this track was used: volcanic action probably.”    “Perhaps, or perhaps there was a wooden bridge or stairway which has 
had raised its level very many feet. Therefore, to this  avalanche, which had threatened to destroy us, we in reality  owed our lives, for had the stream stood only at its normal  height we must have been dashed to pieces upon the stones.  --L. H. H.    “Still living, both of us, and the precipice passed!” he shouted in a  ringing, exultant voice. “I told you we were led.”    “Aye, but whither?” I answered as I too fought my way through the film  of ice.    Then it was I became aware that we were no longer alone, for on the  bank of the river, some thirty yards from us, stood two figures, a man  leaning upon a long staff and a woman. He was a very old man, for his  eyes were horny, his snow-white hair and beard hung upon the bent breast  and shoulders, and his sardonic, wrinkled features were yellow as wax.  They might have been those of a death mask cut in marble. There, clad in  an ample, monkish robe, and leaning upon the staff, he stood still as  a statue and watched us. I noted it all, every detail, although at the  time I did not know that I was doing so, as we broke our way through the  ice towards them and afterwards the picture came back to me. Also I saw  that the woman, who was very tall, pointed to us.    Nearer the bank, or rather to the rock edge of the river, its surface  was free of ice, for here the stream ran very swiftly. Seeing this, we  drew close together and swam on side by side to help each other if need  were. There was much need, for in the fringe of the torrent the strength  that had served me so long seemed to desert me, and I became helpless;  numbed, too, with the biting coldness of the water. Indeed, had not Leo  grasped my clothes I think that I should have been swept away by the  current to perish. Thus aided I fought on a while, till he said--“I am 
 came the Khania Atene, who shut and bolted it behind her. This action  did not reassure me, still, rising in my bed, I saluted her as best I  could, although at heart I was afraid. She seemed to read my doubts for  she said--“Lie down, and have no fear. At present you will come by no  harm from me. Now, tell me what is the man called Leo to you? Your son?  Nay, it cannot be, since--forgive me--light is not born of darkness.”    “I have always thought that it was so born, Khania. Yet you are right;  he is but my adopted son, and a man whom I love.”    “Say, what seek you here?” she asked.    “We seek, Khania, whatsoever Fate shall bring us on yonder Mountain,  that which is crowned with flame.”    Her face paled at the words, but she answered in a steady voice--“Then  there you will find nothing but doom, if indeed you do not find it  before you reach its slopes, which are guarded by savage men. Yonder is  the College of Hes, and to violate its Sanctuary is death to any man,  death in the ever-burning fire.”    “And who rules this college, Khania--a priestess?”    “Yes, a priestess, whose face I have never seen, for she is so old that  she veils herself from curious eyes.”    “Ah! she veils herself, does she?” I answered, as the blood went  thrilling through my veins, I who remembered another who also was  _so_ old that she veiled herself from curious eyes. “Well, veiled or  unveiled, we would visit her, trusting to find that we are welcome.”    “That you shall not do,” she said, “for it is unlawful, and I will not  have your blood upon my hands.”    “Which is the stronger,” I asked of her, “you, Khania, or this priestess  of the Mountain?”    “I am the stronger, Holly, for so you are named, are you not? Look you,  at my need I can summon sixty thousand men in war, while she has naught  but her priests and the fierce, untrained tribes.”    “The sword is not the only power in the world,” I answered. “Tell me, 
Leo, guard yourself. I believe that this is a trial sent to you, and  doubtless there will be more to follow. But I believe also that it would  be better for you to die than to make any mistake.”    “I know it well,” he answered; “and you need not be afraid. Whatever  this Khania may have been to me in the past--if she was anything at  all--that story is done with. I seek Ayesha, and Ayesha alone, and Venus  herself shall not tempt me from her.”    Then we began to speak with hope and fear of that mysterious Hesea who  had sent the letter from the Mountain, commanding the Shaman Simbri to  meet us: the priestess or spirit whom he declared was “mighty from of  old” and had “servants in the earth and air.”    Presently the prow of our barge bumped against the bank of the river,  and looking round I saw that Simbri had left the boat in which he sat  and was preparing to enter ours. This he did, and, placing himself  gravely on a seat in front of us, explained that nightfall was coming  on, and he wished to give us his company and protection through the  dark.    “And to see that we do not give him the slip in it,” muttered Leo.    Then the drivers whipped up their ponies, and we went on again.    “Look behind you,” said Simbri presently, “and you will see the city  where you will sleep to-night.”    We turned ourselves, and there, about ten miles away, perceived a  flat-roofed town of considerable, though not of very great size. Its  position was good, for it was set upon a large island that stood a  hundred feet or more above the level of the plain, the river dividing  into two branches at the foot of it, and, as we discovered afterwards,  uniting again beyond.    The vast mound upon which this city was built had the appearance of  being artificial, but very possibly the soil whereof it was formed  had been washed up in past ages during times of flood, so that from  a mudbank in the centre of the broad river it grew by degrees to its 
   CHAPTER X    IN THE SHAMAN’S CHAMBER    One night Simbri asked us to dine with him in his own apartments in the  highest tower of the palace--had we but known it, for us a fateful place  indeed, for here the last act of the mighty drama was destined to be  fulfilled. So we went, glad enough of any change. When we had eaten Leo  grew very thoughtful, then said suddenly--“Friend Simbri, I wish to ask  a favour of you--that you will beg the Khania to let us go our ways.”    Instantly the Shaman’s cunning old face became like a mask of ivory.    “Surely you had better ask your favours of the lady herself, lord; I do  not think that any in reason will be refused to you,” he replied.    “Let us stop fencing,” said Leo, “and consider the facts. It has seemed  to me that the Khania Atene is not happy with her husband.”    “Your eyes are very keen, lord, and who shall say that they have  deceived you?”    “It has seemed, further,” went on Leo, reddening, “that she has been so  good as to look on me with--some undeserved regard.”    “Ah! perhaps you guessed that in the Gate-house yonder, if you have not  forgotten what most men would remember.”    “I remember certain things, Simbri, that have to do with her and you.”    The Shaman only stroked his beard and said: “Proceed!”    “There is little to add, Simbri, except that _I_ am not minded to bring  scandal on the name of the first lady in your land.”    “Nobly said, lord, nobly said, though here they do not trouble much  about such things. But how if the matter could be managed without  scandal? If, for instance, the Khania chose to take another husband the  whole land would rejoice, for she is the last of her royal race.”    “How can she take another husband when she has one living?”    “True; indeed that is a question which I have considered, but the answer  to it is that men die. It is the common lot, and the Khan has been 
soil.    Here the people seemed to know us as the two foreigners whose coming had  been noised abroad, and, the fear of famine having made them bold, they  shouted at us as we went by to give them back the rain which we had  stolen, or so we understood their words. Even the women and the children  in the villages prostrated themselves before us, pointing first to the  Mountain and then to the hard, blue sky, and crying to us to send them  rain. Once, indeed, we were threatened by a mob of peasants armed with  spades and reaping-hooks, who seemed inclined to bar our path, so that  we were obliged to put our horses to a gallop and pass through them  with a rush. As we went forward the country grew ever more arid and its  inhabitants more scarce, till we saw no man save a few wandering herds  who drove their cattle from place to place in search of provender.    By evening we guessed that we had reached that border tract which was  harried by the Mountain tribes, for here strong towers built of stone  were dotted about the heaths, doubtless to serve as watch-houses or  places of refuge. Whether they were garrisoned by soldiers I do not  know, but I doubt it, for we saw none. It seems probable indeed that  these forts were relics of days when the land of Kaloon was guarded from  attack by rulers of a very different character to that of the present  Khan and his immediate predecessors.    At length even the watch-towers were left behind, and by sundown we  found ourselves upon a vast uninhabited plain, where we could see  no living thing. Now we made up our minds to rest our horses awhile,  proposing to push forward again with the moon, for having the wrath  of the Khania behind us we did not dare to linger. By this evening  doubtless she would have discovered our escape, since before sundown, as  she had decreed, Leo must make his choice and give his answer. Then,  as we were sure, she would strike swiftly. Perhaps her messengers  were already at their work rousing the country to capture us, and her 
 and I warn you to set no foot within its temples.”    “Which your mistress said that we should never reach,” I commented, but  Leo only answered--“We thank you for your warning,” and added, “Horace,  watch them while I saddle the horse, lest they do us a mischief.”    So I took the spear in my uninjured hand and stood ready. But they made  no attempt to hurt us, only fell back a little and began to talk in  hurried whispers. It was evident to me that they were much perturbed.  In a few minutes the horse was saddled and Leo assisted me to mount it.  Then he said--“We go to accomplish our fate, whatever it may be, but  before we part, Khania, I thank you for the kindness you have shown us,  and pray you to be wise and forget that we have ever been. Through no  will of mine your husband’s blood is on my hands, and that alone must  separate us for ever. We are divided by the doors of death and destiny.  Go back to your people, and pardon me if most unwillingly I have brought  you doubt and trouble. Farewell.”    She listened with bowed head, then replied, very sadly--“I thank you for  your gentle words, but, Leo Vincey, we do not part thus easily. You have  summoned me to the Mountain, and even to the Mountain I shall follow  you. Aye, and there I will meet its Spirit, as I have always known I  must and as the Shaman here has always known I must. Yes, I will match  my strength and magic against hers, as it is decreed that I shall do. To  the victor be that crown for which we have warred for ages.”    Then suddenly Atene sprang to her saddle, and turning her horse’s head  rode it back through the water to the shore, followed by old Simbri, who  lifted up his crooked hands as though in woe and fear, muttering as he  went--“You have entered the forbidden river and now, Atene, the day of  decision is upon us all--upon us and her--that predestined day of ruin  and of war.”    “What do they mean?” asked Leo of me. 
our corpse-like guide, who appeared to be looking intently at the bed on  which Leo lay, or so I thought, for the head was bent in that direction.    At first she was quite still, then she moaned aloud, a low and terrible  moan, which seemed to well from the very heart.    So the thing was not dumb, as I had believed. Evidently it could suffer,  and express its suffering in a human fashion. Look! it was wringing its  padded hands as in an excess of woe. Now it would seem that Leo began to  feel its influence also, for he stirred and spoke in his sleep, so low  at first that I could only distinguish the tongue he used, which was  Arabic. Presently I caught a few words.    “Ayesha,” he said, “_Ayesha!_”    The figure glided towards him and stopped. He sat up in the bed still  fast asleep, for his eyes were shut. He stretched out his arms, as  though seeking one whom he would embrace, and spoke again in a low and  passionate voice--“Ayesha, through life and death I have sought thee  long. Come to me, my goddess, my desired.”    The figure glided yet nearer, and I could see that it was trembling, and  now its arms were extended also.    At the bedside she halted, and Leo laid himself down again. Now the  coverings had fallen back, exposing his breast, where lay the leather  satchel he always wore, that which contained the lock of Ayesha’s hair.  He was fast asleep, and the figure seemed to fix its eyes upon this  satchel. Presently it did more, for, with surprising deftness those  white-wrapped fingers opened its clasp, yes, and drew out the long  tress of shining hair. Long and earnestly she gazed at it, then gently  replaced the relic, closed the satchel and for a little while seemed to  weep. While she stood thus the dreaming Leo once more stretched out his  arms and spoke, saying, in the same passion-laden voice--“Come to me, my  darling, my beautiful, my beautiful!”    At those words, with a little muffled scream, like that of a scared  night-bird, the figure turned and flitted through the doorway. 
 without. Tell it me, thou, Leo, as briefly as thou wilt, so that thou  tell the truth, for in the Presence of which I am a Minister, may  nothing else be uttered.”    “Priestess,” he said, in his curt fashion, “I obey. Many years ago when  I was young, my friend and foster-father and I, led by records of the  past, travelled to a wild land, and there found a certain divine woman  who had conquered time.”    “Then that woman must have been both aged and hideous.”    “I said, Priestess, that she had conquered time, not suffered it, for  the gift of immortal youth was hers. Also she was not hideous; she was  beauty itself.”    “Therefore stranger, thou didst worship her for her beauty’s sake, as a  man does.”    “I did not worship her; I loved her, which is another thing. The priest  Oros here worships thee, whom he calls Mother. I loved that immortal  woman.”    “Then thou shouldst love her still. Yet, not so, since love is very  mortal.”    “I love her still,” he answered, “although she died.”    “Why, how is that? Thou saidst she was immortal.”    “Perchance she only seemed to die; perchance she changed. At least I  lost her, and what I lost I seek, and have sought this many a year.”    “Why dost thou seek her in my Mountain, Leo Vincey?”    “Because a vision led me to ask counsel of its Oracle. I am come hither  to learn tidings of my lost love, since here alone these may be found.”    “And thou, Holly, didst thou also love an immortal woman whose  immortality, it seems, must bow to death?”    “Priestess,” I answered, “I am sworn to this quest, and where my  foster-son goes I follow. He follows beauty that is dead----”    “And thou dost follow him. Therefore both of you follow beauty as men  have ever done, being blind and mad.”    “Nay,” I answered, “if they were blind, beauty would be naught to them  who could not see it, and if they were mad, they would not know it when 
of the Under-world that he would receive this spirit and acquit it there  as here it had been acquitted by the Hesea, his minister.    Ere their dirge ended certain of the priests, advancing with slow steps,  lifted the bier and carried it to the edge of the gulf; then at a sign  from the Mother, hurled it feet foremost into the fiery lake below,  whilst all watched to see how it struck the flame. For this they held to  be an omen, since should the body turn over in its descent it was taken  as a sign that the judgment of mortal men had been refused in the Place  of the Immortals. It did not turn; it rushed downwards straight as a  plummet and plunged into the fire hundreds of feet below, and there  for ever vanished. This indeed was not strange since, as we discovered  afterwards, the feet were weighted.    In fact this solemn rite was but a formula that, down to the exact  words of judgment and committal, had been practised here from unknown  antiquity over the bodies of the priests and priestesses of the  Mountain, and of certain of the great ones of the Plain. So it was in  ancient Egypt, whence without doubt this ceremony of the trial of the  dead was derived, and so it continued to be in the land of Hes, for no  priestess ever ventured to condemn the soul of one departed.    The real interest of the custom, apart from its solemnity and awful  surroundings, centred in the accurate knowledge displayed by the masked  Accuser and Advocate of the life-deeds of the deceased. It showed that  although the College of Hes affected to be indifferent to the doings and  politics of the people of the Plain that they once ruled and over which,  whilst secretly awaiting an opportunity of re-conquest, they still  claimed a spiritual authority, the attitude was assumed rather than  real. Moreover it suggested a system of espionage so piercing and  extraordinary that it was difficult to believe it unaided by the  habitual exercise of some gift of clairvoyance.    The service, if I may call it so, was finished; the dead man had 
 “Therefore, merciful Mother that bore me, to thee I make my prayer.  Oh, let his true love atone my sin; or, if it may not be, then give me  death, the last and most blessed of thy boons!”        CHAPTER XVI    THE CHANGE    She ceased, and there was a long, long silence. Leo and I looked at  each other in dismay. We had hoped against hope that this beautiful  and piteous prayer, addressed apparently to the great, dumb spirit of  Nature, would be answered. That meant a miracle, but what of it? The  prolongation of the life of Ayesha was a miracle, though it is true that  some humble reptiles are said to live as long as she had done.    The transference of her spirit from the Caves of Kor to this temple was  a miracle, that is, to our western minds, though the dwellers in these  parts of Central Asia would not hold it so. That she should re-appear  with the same hideous body was a miracle. But was it the same body? Was  it not the body of the last Hesea? One very ancient woman is much like  another, and eighteen years of the working of the soul or identity  within might well wear away their trivial differences and give to the  borrowed form some resemblance to that which it had left.    At least the figures on that mirror of the flame were a miracle. Nay,  why so? A hundred clairvoyants in a hundred cities can produce or see  their like in water and in crystal, the difference being only one  of size. They were but reflections of scenes familiar to the mind of  Ayesha, or perhaps not so much as that. Perhaps they were only phantasms  called up in _our_ minds by her mesmeric force.    Nay, none of these things were true miracles, since all, however  strange, might be capable of explanation. What right then had we to  expect a marvel now?    Such thoughts as these rose in our minds as the endless minutes were  born and died and--nothing happened.    Yes, at last one thing did happen. The light from the sheet of flame 
an unlucky man, and the deeds he did, if in truth he was aught other  than a tool in the hand of destiny, have bred no good to the inheritors  of his body--or his spirit, whichever it may be--or to those women with  whom his life was intertwined. Call me Leo, then, for of Kallikrates I  have had enough since that night when I looked upon the last of him in  Kor.”    “Ah! I remember,” she answered, “when thou sawest thyself lying in that  narrow bed, and I sang thee a song, did I not, of the past and of the  future? I can recall two lines of it; the rest I have forgotten--    “‘Onward, never weary, clad with splendour for a robe!  Till accomplished be our fate, and the night is rushing down.’    “Yes, my Leo, now indeed we are ‘clad with splendour for a robe,’ and  now our fate draws near to its accomplishment. Then perchance will come  the down-rushing of the night;” and she sighed, looked up tenderly and  said, “See, I am talking to thee in Arabic. Hast thou forgotten it?”    “No.”    “Then let it be our tongue, for I love it best of all, who lisped it at  my mother’s knee. Now leave me here alone awhile; I would think. Also,”  she added thoughtfully, and speaking with a strange and impressive  inflexion of the voice, “there are some to whom I must give audience.”    So we went, all of us, supposing that Ayesha was about to receive a  deputation of the Chiefs of the Mountain Tribes who came to felicitate  her upon her betrothal.        CHAPTER XVIII    THE THIRD ORDEAL    An hour, two hours passed, while we strove to rest in our sleeping  place, but could not, for some influence disturbed us.    “Why does not Ayesha come?” asked Leo at length, pausing in his walk up  and down the room. “I want to see her again; I cannot bear to be apart  from her. I feel as though she were drawing me to her.” 
 daughters of men, and found that they were fair?”    “It is so written,” I answered.    “Then, Holly, might it not have chanced that once a daughter of Heaven  came down to a man of Earth and loved him well? Might it not chance that  for her great sin, she, this high, fallen star, who had befouled her  immortal state for him, was doomed to suffer till at length his love,  made divine by pain and faithful even to a memory, was permitted to  redeem her?”    Now at length I saw light and sprang up eagerly, but in a cold voice she  added:    “Nay, Holly, cease to question me, for there are things of which I can  but speak to thee in figures and in parables, not to mock and bewilder  thee, but because I must. Interpret them as thou wilt. Still, Atene  thought me no mortal, since she told us that man and spirit may not  mate; and there are matters in which I let her judgment weigh with me,  as without doubt now, as in other lives, she and that old Shaman, her  uncle, have wisdom, aye, and foresight. So bid my lord press me no more  to wed him, for it gives me pain to say him nay--ah! thou knowest not  how much.    “Moreover, I will declare myself to thee, old friend; whatever else  I be, at least I am too womanly to listen to the pleadings of my best  beloved and not myself be moved. See, I have set a curb upon desire  and drawn it until my heart bleeds; but if he pursues me with continual  words and looks of burning love, who knoweth but that I shall kindle in  his flame and throw the reins of reason to the winds?    “Oh, then together we might race adown our passions’ steep; together  dare the torrent that rages at its foot, and there perchance be whelmed  or torn asunder. Nay, nay, another space of journeying, but a little  space, and we reach the bridge my wisdom found, and cross it safely, and  beyond for ever ride on at ease through the happy meadows of our love.” 
  “Thy business, priest?” she asked sharply; for when she was with Leo  Ayesha did not like to be disturbed.    “Hes, the spies are returned.”    “Why didst thou send them out?” she asked indifferently. “What need have  I of thy spies?”    “Hes, thou didst command me.”    “Well, their report?”    “Hes, it is most grave. The people of Kaloon are desperate because of  the drought which has caused their crops to fail, so that starvation  stares them in the eyes, and this they lay to the charge of the  strangers who came into their land and fled to thee. The Khania Atene  also is mad with rage against thee and our holy College. Labouring night  and day, she has gathered two great armies, one of forty, and one of  twenty thousand men, and the latter of these she sends against the  Mountain under the command of her uncle, Simbri the Shaman. In case it  should be defeated she purposes to remain with the second and greater  army on the plains about Kaloon.”    “Tidings indeed,” said Ayesha with a scornful laugh. “Has her hate  made this woman mad that she dares thus to match herself against me? My  Holly, it crossed thy mind but now that it was I who am mad, boasting  of what I have no power to perform. Well, within six days thou shalt  learn--oh! verily thou shalt learn, and, though the issue be so very  small, in such a fashion that thou wilt doubt no more for ever. Stay,  I will look, though the effort of it wearies me, for those spies may be  but victims to their own fears, or to the falsehoods of Atene.”    Then suddenly, as was common with her when thus Ayesha threw her sight  afar, which either from indolence, or because, as she said, it exhausted  her, she did but rarely, her lovely face grew rigid like that of a  person in a trance; the light faded from her brow, and the great pupils  of her eyes contracted themselves and lost their colour.    In a little while, five minutes perhaps, she sighed like one awakening  
   “To the Hesea of the College on the Mountain, known as Ayesha upon  earth, and in the household of the Over-world whence she has been  permitted to wander, as ‘Star-that-hath-fallen--’”      “A pretty sounding name, forsooth,” broke in Ayesha; “ah! but, Atene,  set stars rise again--even from the Under-world. Read on, thou Oros.”      “Greetings, O Ayesha. Thou who art very old, hast gathered much wisdom  in the passing of the centuries, and with other powers, that of making  thyself seem fair in the eyes of men blinded by thine arts. Yet one  thing thou lackest that I have--vision of those happenings which are not  yet. Know, O Ayesha, that I and my uncle, the great seer, have searched  the heavenly books to learn what is written there of the issue of this  war.    “This is written:--For me, death, whereat I rejoice. For thee a spear  cast by thine own hand. For the land of Kaloon blood and ruin bred of  thee!    “Atene,    “Khania of Kaloon.”      Ayesha listened in silence, but her lips did not tremble, nor her cheek  pale. To Oros she said proudly--“Say to the messenger of Atene that I  have received her message, and ere long will answer it, face to face  with her in her palace of Kaloon. Go, priest, and disturb me no more.”    When Oros had departed she turned to us and said--“That tale of mine of  long ago was well fitted to this hour, for as Amenartas prophesied of  ill, so does Atene prophesy of ill, and Amenartas and Atene are one.  Well, let the spear fall, if fall it must, and I will not flinch from  it who know that I shall surely triumph at the last. Perhaps the Khania  does but think to frighten me with a cunning lie, but if she has read  aright, then be sure, beloved, that it is still well with us, since none  can escape their destiny, nor can our bond of union which was fashioned  with the universe that bears us, ever be undone.”    She paused awhile then went on with a sudden outburst of poetic thought 
  Ayesha held up her hand, in which there was no weapon, and waved it  forwards. A great cheer answered that signal to advance, and in the  midst of it this frail, white-robed woman spoke to her horse, so that it  plunged deep into the water.    Two minutes later, and spears and arrows were flying about us so thickly  that they seemed to darken the sky. I saw men and horses fall to right  and left, but nothing touched me or the white robes that floated a yard  or two ahead. Five minutes and we were gaining the further bank, and  there the worst fight began.    It was fierce indeed, yet never an inch did the white robes give back,  and where they went men would follow them or fall. We were up the bank  and the enemy was packed about us, but through them we passed slowly,  like a boat through an adverse sea that buffets but cannot stay it.  Yes, further and further, till at last the lines ahead grew thin as the  living wedge of horsemen forced its path between them--grew thin, broke  and vanished.    We had passed through the heart of the host, and leaving the tribesmen  who followed to deal with its flying fragments, rode on half a mile or  so and mustered. Many were dead and more were hurt, but the command was  issued that all sore-wounded men should fall out and give their horses  to replace those that had been killed.    This was done, and presently we moved on, three thousand of us now, not  more, heading for Kaloon. The trot grew to a canter, and the canter to a  gallop, as we rushed forward across that endless plain, till at midday,  or a little after--for this route was far shorter than that taken by Leo  and myself in our devious flight from Rassen and his death-hounds--we  dimly saw the city of Kaloon set upon its hill.    Now a halt was ordered, for here was a reservoir in which was still  some water, whereof the horses drank, while the men ate of the food they  carried with them; dried meat and barley meal. Here, too, more spies met 
 more than a spoken part, for how can the star seek the moth although the  moth may seek the star? Though the man may worship the goddess, for all  her smiles divine, how can the goddess love the man?    But now everything was altered! Look! Ayesha grew human; I could see  her heart beat beneath her robes and hear her breath come in soft, sweet  sobs, while o’er her upturned face and in her alluring eyes there spread  itself that look which is born of love alone. Radiant and more radiant  did she seem to grow, sweeter and more sweet, no longer the veiled  Hermit of the Caves, no longer the Oracle of the Sanctuary, no longer  the Valkyrie of the battle-plain, but only the loveliest and most happy  bride that ever gladdened a husband’s eyes.    She spoke, and it was of little things, for thus Ayesha proclaimed the  conquest of herself.    “Fie!” she said, showing her white robes torn with spears and stained by  the dust and dew of war; “Fie, my lord, what marriage garments are these  in which at last I come to thee, who would have been adorned in regal  gems and raiment befitting to my state and thine?”    “I seek the woman not her garment,” said Leo, his burning eyes fixed  upon her face.    “Thou seekest the woman. Ah! there it lies. Tell me, Leo, am I woman  or spirit? Say that I am woman, for now the prophecy of this dead Atene  lies heavy on my soul, Atene who said that mortal and immortal may not  mate.”    “Thou must be woman, or thou wouldst not have tormented me as thou hast  done these many weeks.”    “I thank thee for the comfort of thy words. Yet, was it _woman_ whose  breath wrought destruction upon yonder plain? Was it to a _woman_ that  Blast and Lightning bowed and said, ‘We are here: Command us, we obey’?  Did that dead thing (and she pointed to the shattered door) break inward  at a _woman’s_ will? Or could a _woman_ charm this man to stone?    “Oh! Leo, would that I were woman! I tell thee that I’d lay all my 
