“I wonder when in the world you’re going to do anything, Rudolf?” said  my brother’s wife.    “My dear Rose,” I answered, laying down my egg-spoon, “why in the world  should I do anything? My position is a comfortable one. I have an  income nearly sufficient for my wants (no one’s income is ever quite  sufficient, you know), I enjoy an enviable social position: I am  brother to Lord Burlesdon, and brother-in-law to that charming lady, his  countess. Behold, it is enough!”    “You are nine-and-twenty,” she observed, “and you’ve done nothing but--”    “Knock about? It is true. Our family doesn’t need to do things.”    This remark of mine rather annoyed Rose, for everybody knows (and  therefore there can be no harm in referring to the fact) that, pretty  and accomplished as she herself is, her family is hardly of the same  standing as the Rassendylls. Besides her attractions, she possessed a  large fortune, and my brother Robert was wise enough not to mind about  her ancestry. Ancestry is, in fact, a matter concerning which the next  observation of Rose’s has some truth.    “Good families are generally worse than any others,” she said.    Upon this I stroked my hair: I knew quite well what she meant.    “I’m so glad Robert’s is black!” she cried.    At this moment Robert (who rises at seven and works before breakfast)  came in. He glanced at his wife: her cheek was slightly flushed; he  patted it caressingly.    “What’s the matter, my dear?” he asked.    “She objects to my doing nothing and having red hair,” said I, in an  injured tone.    “Oh! of course he can’t help his hair,” admitted Rose.    “It generally crops out once in a generation,” said my brother. “So does  the nose. Rudolf has got them both.”    “I wish they didn’t crop out,” said Rose, still flushed.    “I rather like them myself,” said I, and, rising, I bowed to the  portrait of Countess Amelia.    My brother’s wife uttered an exclamation of impatience.    “I wish you’d take that picture away, Robert,” said she. 
 a ticket for Dresden.    “Going to see the pictures?” asked George, with a grin.    George is an inveterate gossip, and had I told him that I was off to  Ruritania, the news would have been in London in three days and in Park  Lane in a week. I was, therefore, about to return an evasive answer,  when he saved my conscience by leaving me suddenly and darting across  the platform. Following him with my eyes, I saw him lift his hat and  accost a graceful, fashionably dressed woman who had just appeared from  the booking-office. She was, perhaps, a year or two over thirty, tall,  dark, and of rather full figure. As George talked, I saw her glance at  me, and my vanity was hurt by the thought that, muffled in a fur coat  and a neck-wrapper (for it was a chilly April day) and wearing a soft  travelling hat pulled down to my ears, I must be looking very far from  my best. A moment later, George rejoined me.    “You’ve got a charming travelling companion,” he said. “That’s poor Bert  Bertrand’s goddess, Antoinette de Mauban, and, like you, she’s going to  Dresden--also, no doubt, to see the pictures. It’s very queer, though,  that she doesn’t at present desire the honour of your acquaintance.”    “I didn’t ask to be introduced,” I observed, a little annoyed.    “Well, I offered to bring you to her; but she said, ‘Another time.’  Never mind, old fellow, perhaps there’ll be a smash, and you’ll have a  chance of rescuing her and cutting out the Duke of Strelsau!”    No smash, however, happened, either to me or to Madame de Mauban. I can  speak for her as confidently as for myself; for when, after a night’s  rest in Dresden, I continued my journey, she got into the same train.  Understanding that she wished to be let alone, I avoided her carefully,  but I saw that she went the same way as I did to the very end of my  journey, and I took opportunities of having a good look at her, when I  could do so unobserved.    As soon as we reached the Ruritanian frontier (where the old officer who 
“My brother is now Lord Burlesdon,” said I.    “Thy head betrayeth thee,” he chuckled, pointing to my uncovered poll.  “Why, Fritz, you know the story?”    The young man glanced apologetically at me. He felt a delicacy which  my sister-in-law would have admired. To put him at his ease, I remarked  with a smile:    “Ah! the story is known here as well as among us, it seems.”    “Known!” cried Sapt. “If you stay here, the deuce a man in all Ruritania  will doubt of it--or a woman either.”    I began to feel uncomfortable. Had I realized what a very plainly  written pedigree I carried about with me, I should have thought long  before I visited Ruritania. However, I was in for it now.    At this moment a ringing voice sounded from the wood behind us:    “Fritz, Fritz! where are you, man?”    Tarlenheim started, and said hastily:    “It’s the King!”    Old Sapt chuckled again.    Then a young man jumped out from behind the trunk of a tree and stood  beside us. As I looked at him, I uttered an astonished cry; and he,  seeing me, drew back in sudden wonder. Saving the hair on my face and  a manner of conscious dignity which his position gave him, saving also  that he lacked perhaps half an inch--nay, less than that, but still  something--of my height, the King of Ruritania might have been Rudolf  Rassendyll, and I, Rudolf, the King.    For an instant we stood motionless, looking at one another. Then I bared  my head again and bowed respectfully. The King found his voice, and  asked in bewilderment:    “Colonel--Fritz--who is this gentleman?”    I was about to answer, when Colonel Sapt stepped between the King and  me, and began to talk to his Majesty in a low growl. The King towered  over Sapt, and, as he listened, his eyes now and again sought mine.  I looked at him long and carefully. The likeness was certainly  astonishing, though I saw the points of difference also. The King’s face  was slightly more fleshy than mine, the oval of its contour the least 
 “Impossible!” I muttered. “I should be known.”    “It’s a risk--against a certainty,” said Sapt. “If you shave, I’ll wager  you’ll not be known. Are you afraid?”    “Sir!”    “Come, lad, there, there; but it’s your life, you know, if you’re  known--and mine--and Fritz’s here. But, if you don’t go, I swear to you  Black Michael will sit tonight on the throne, and the King lie in prison  or his grave.”    “The King would never forgive it,” I stammered.    “Are we women? Who cares for his forgiveness?”    The clock ticked fifty times, and sixty and seventy times, as I stood in  thought. Then I suppose a look came over my face, for old Sapt caught me  by the hand, crying:    “You’ll go?”    “Yes, I’ll go,” said I, and I turned my eyes on the prostrate figure of  the King on the floor.    “Tonight,” Sapt went on in a hasty whisper, “we are to lodge in the  Palace. The moment they leave us you and I will mount our horses--Fritz  must stay there and guard the King’s room--and ride here at a gallop.  The King will be ready--Josef will tell him--and he must ride back with  me to Strelsau, and you ride as if the devil were behind you to the  frontier.”    I took it all in in a second, and nodded my head.    “There’s a chance,” said Fritz, with his first sign of hopefulness.    “If I escape detection,” said I.    “If we’re detected,” said Sapt. “I’ll send Black Michael down below  before I go myself, so help me heaven! Sit in that chair, man.”    I obeyed him.    He darted from the room, calling “Josef! Josef!” In three minutes he was  back, and Josef with him. The latter carried a jug of hot water, soap  and razors. He was trembling as Sapt told him how the land lay, and bade  him shave me.    Suddenly Fritz smote on his thigh:    “But the guard! They’ll know! they’ll know!”    “Pooh! We shan’t wait for the guard. We’ll ride to Hofbau and catch a 
“He’s a bigger man than I thought,” said another.    “So he had a good jaw under that beard after all,” commented a third.    “The pictures of him aren’t handsome enough,” declared a pretty girl,  taking great care that I should hear. No doubt it was mere flattery.    But, in spite of these signs of approval and interest, the mass of  the people received me in silence and with sullen looks, and my dear  brother’s portrait ornamented most of the windows--which was an ironical  sort of greeting to the King. I was quite glad that he had been spared  the unpleasant sight. He was a man of quick temper, and perhaps he would  not have taken it so placidly as I did.    At last we were at the Cathedral. Its great grey front, embellished  with hundreds of statues and boasting a pair of the finest oak doors in  Europe, rose for the first time before me, and the sudden sense of my  audacity almost overcame me. Everything was in a mist as I dismounted. I  saw the Marshal and Sapt dimly, and dimly the throng of gorgeously robed  priests who awaited me. And my eyes were still dim as I walked up the  great nave, with the pealing of the organ in my ears. I saw nothing of  the brilliant throng that filled it, I hardly distinguished the stately  figure of the Cardinal as he rose from the archiepiscopal throne to  greet me. Two faces only stood out side by side clearly before my  eyes--the face of a girl, pale and lovely, surmounted by a crown of the  glorious Elphberg hair (for in a woman it is glorious), and the face  of a man, whose full-blooded red cheeks, black hair, and dark deep eyes  told me that at last I was in presence of my brother, Black Michael. And  when he saw me his red cheeks went pale all in a moment, and his helmet  fell with a clatter on the floor. Till that moment I believe that he had  not realized that the King was in very truth come to Strelsau.    Of what followed next I remember nothing. I knelt before the altar and 
   I saw that his revolver was in his hand.    Nearer and nearer came the hoofs. The moon shone out now clear and full,  so that the road was white with it. The ground was hard, and we had left  no traces.    “Here they come!” whispered Sapt.    “It’s the duke!”    “I thought so,” he answered.    It was the duke; and with him a burly fellow whom I knew well, and who  had cause to know me afterwards--Max Holf, brother to Johann the keeper,  and body-servant to his Highness. They were up to us: the duke reined  up. I saw Sapt’s finger curl lovingly towards the trigger. I believe  he would have given ten years of his life for a shot; and he could have  picked off Black Michael as easily as I could a barn-door fowl in a  farmyard. I laid my hand on his arm. He nodded reassuringly: he was  always ready to sacrifice inclination to duty.    “Which way?” asked Black Michael.    “To the Castle, your Highness,” urged his companion. “There we shall  learn the truth.”    For an instant the duke hesitated.    “I thought I heard hoofs,” said he.    “I think not, your Highness.”    “Why shouldn’t we go to the lodge?”    “I fear a trap. If all is well, why go to the lodge? If not, it’s a  snare to trap us.”    Suddenly the duke’s horse neighed. In an instant we folded our cloaks  close round our horses’ heads, and, holding them thus, covered the duke  and his attendant with our revolvers. If they had found us, they had  been dead men, or our prisoners.    Michael waited a moment longer. Then he cried:    “To Zenda, then!” and setting spurs to his horse, galloped on.    Sapt raised his weapon after him, and there was such an expression  of wistful regret on his face that I had much ado not to burst out  laughing.    For ten minutes we stayed where we were.    “You see,” said Sapt, “they’ve sent him news that all is well.” 
  “Gad, you’re thirsty tonight,” chuckled Sapt. “So be it.”    We mounted, drawing our swords, and waited silently for a minute or two.  Then we heard the tramp of men on the drive the other side of the house.  They came to a stand, and one cried:    “Now then, fetch him out!”    “Now!” whispered Sapt.    Driving the spurs into our horses, we rushed at a gallop round the  house, and in a moment we were among the ruffians. Sapt told me  afterwards that he killed a man, and I believe him; but I saw no more of  him. With a cut, I split the head of a fellow on a brown horse, and he  fell to the ground. Then I found myself opposite a big man, and I was  half conscious of another to my right. It was too warm to stay, and with  a simultaneous action I drove my spurs into my horse again and my sword  full into the big man’s breast. His bullet whizzed past my ear--I could  almost swear it touched it. I wrenched at the sword, but it would not  come, and I dropped it and galloped after Sapt, whom I now saw about  twenty yards ahead. I waved my hand in farewell, and dropped it a second  later with a yell, for a bullet had grazed my finger and I felt the  blood. Old Sapt turned round in the saddle. Someone fired again, but  they had no rifles, and we were out of range. Sapt fell to laughing.    “That’s one to me and two to you, with decent luck,” said he. “Little  Josef will have company.”    “Ay, they’ll be a _partie carree_,” said I. My blood was up, and I  rejoiced to have killed them.    “Well, a pleasant night’s work to the rest!” said he. “I wonder if they  noticed you?”    “The big fellow did; as I stuck him I heard him cry, ‘The King!’”    “Good! good! Oh, we’ll give Black Michael some work before we’ve done!”    Pausing an instant, we made a bandage for my wounded finger, which was  bleeding freely and ached severely, the bone being much bruised. Then we 
 “If those are your orders.”    “Oh, decidedly! We must all be pleasant to our dear Michael.”    “You order me to receive his friends, too, I suppose?”    “The Six?”    “You call them that, too?”    “To be in the fashion, I do. But I order you to receive no one unless  you like.”    “Except yourself?”    “I pray for myself. I could not order.”    As I spoke, there came a cheer from the street. The princess ran to the  window.    “It is he!” she cried. “It is--the Duke of Strelsau!”    I smiled, but said nothing. She returned to her seat. For a few moments  we sat in silence. The noise outside subsided, but I heard the tread of  feet in the ante-room. I began to talk on general subjects. This went on  for some minutes. I wondered what had become of Michael, but it did  not seem to be for me to interfere. All at once, to my great surprise,  Flavia, clasping her hands asked in an agitated voice:    “Are you wise to make him angry?”    “What? Who? How am I making him angry?”    “Why, by keeping him waiting.”    “My dear cousin, I don’t want to keep him--”    “Well, then, is he to come in?”    “Of course, if you wish it.”    She looked at me curiously.    “How funny you are,” she said. “Of course no one could be announced  while I was with you.”    Here was a charming attribute of royalty!    “An excellent etiquette!” I cried. “But I had clean forgotten it; and if  I were alone with someone else, couldn’t you be announced?”    “You know as well as I do. I could be, because I am of the Blood;” and  she still looked puzzled.    “I never could remember all these silly rules,” said I, rather feebly,  as I inwardly cursed Fritz for not posting me up. “But I’ll repair my  fault.”    I jumped up, flung open the door, and advanced into the ante-room. 
  “Sapt, I believe in that woman, and I shall go.”    “I don’t believe in any woman,” said Sapt, “and you shan’t go.”    “I either go to the summer-house or back to England,” said I.    Sapt began to know exactly how far he could lead or drive, and when he  must follow.    “We’re playing against time,” I added. “Every day we leave the King  where he is there is fresh risk. Every day I masquerade like this, there  is fresh risk. Sapt, we must play high; we must force the game.”    “So be it,” he said, with a sigh.    To cut the story short, at half-past eleven that night Sapt and I  mounted our horses. Fritz was again left on guard, our destination not  being revealed to him. It was a very dark night. I wore no sword, but I  carried a revolver, a long knife, and a bull’s-eye lantern. We arrived  outside the gate. I dismounted. Sapt held out his hand.    “I shall wait here,” he said. “If I hear a shot, I’ll--”    “Stay where you are; it’s the King’s only chance. You mustn’t come to  grief too.”    “You’re right, lad. Good luck!”    I pressed the little gate. It yielded, and I found myself in a wild sort  of shrubbery. There was a grass-grown path and, turning to the right as  I had been bidden, I followed it cautiously. My lantern was closed, the  revolver was in my hand. I heard not a sound. Presently a large dark  object loomed out of the gloom ahead of me. It was the summer-house.  Reaching the steps, I mounted them and found myself confronted by a  weak, rickety wooden door, which hung upon the latch. I pushed it open  and walked in. A woman flew to me and seized my hand.    “Shut the door,” she whispered.    I obeyed and turned the light of my lantern on her. She was in evening  dress, arrayed very sumptuously, and her dark striking beauty was  marvellously displayed in the glare of the bull’s-eye. The summer-house  was a bare little room, furnished only with a couple of chairs and a 
 “I’ll do nothing of the sort--no more will you!” said I. “I utterly  refuse to take part in making a fool of the princess.”    Sapt looked at me with his small keen eyes. A slow cunning smile passed  over his face.    “All right, lad, all right,” said he. “We mustn’t press you too hard.  Soothe her down a bit, if you can, you know. Now for Michael!”    “Oh, damn Michael!” said I. “He’ll do tomorrow. Here, Fritz, come for a  stroll in the garden.”    Sapt at once yielded. His rough manner covered a wonderful tact--and  as I came to recognize more and more, a remarkable knowledge of human  nature. Why did he urge me so little about the princess? Because he  knew that her beauty and my ardour would carry me further than all his  arguments--and that the less I thought about the thing, the more likely  was I to do it. He must have seen the unhappiness he might bring on the  princess; but that went for nothing with him. Can I say, confidently,  that he was wrong? If the King were restored, the princess must turn to  him, either knowing or not knowing the change. And if the King were not  restored to us? It was a subject that we had never yet spoken of. But I  had an idea that, in such a case, Sapt meant to seat me on the throne of  Ruritania for the term of my life. He would have set Satan himself there  sooner than that pupil of his, Black Michael.      The ball was a sumptuous affair. I opened it by dancing a quadrille  with Flavia: then I waltzed with her. Curious eyes and eager whispers  attended us. We went in to supper; and, half way through, I, half mad by  then, for her glance had answered mine, and her quick breathing met my  stammered sentences--I rose in my place before all the brilliant crowd,  and taking the Red Rose that I wore, flung the ribbon with its jewelled  badge round her neck. In a tumult of applause I sat down: I saw Sapt  smiling over his wine, and Fritz frowning. The rest of the meal passed 
“So you feel strong enough to anger Michael?” she said, with a proud  smile.    “I’m strong enough for anything, while you are safe,” said I.    Soon I tore myself away from her, and then, without consulting Sapt, I  took my way to the house of Marshal Strakencz. I had seen something  of the old general, and I liked and trusted him. Sapt was less  enthusiastic, but I had learnt by now that Sapt was best pleased when  he could do everything, and jealousy played some part in his views. As  things were now, I had more work than Sapt and Fritz could manage, for  they must come with me to Zenda, and I wanted a man to guard what I  loved most in all the world, and suffer me to set about my task of  releasing the King with a quiet mind.    The Marshal received me with most loyal kindness. To some extent, I took  him into my confidence. I charged him with the care of the princess,  looking him full and significantly in the face as I bade him let no one  from her cousin the duke approach her, unless he himself were there and  a dozen of his men with him.    “You may be right, sire,” said he, shaking his grey head sadly. “I have  known better men than the duke do worse things than that for love.”    I could quite appreciate the remark, but I said:    “There’s something beside love, Marshal. Love’s for the heart; is there  nothing my brother might like for his head?”    “I pray that you wrong him, sire.”    “Marshal, I’m leaving Strelsau for a few days. Every evening I will  send a courier to you. If for three days none comes, you will publish an  order which I will give you, depriving Duke Michael of the governorship  of Strelsau and appointing you in his place. You will declare a state of  siege. Then you will send word to Michael that you demand an audience of  the King--You follow me?”    “Ay, sire.”    “--In twenty-four hours. If he does not produce the King” (I laid my 
 utterly damned by the release of the King alive and his restoration to  the throne would drive him to throw away the trump card which he held in  reserve to baulk the supposed game of the impudent impostor Rassendyll.  Musing on all this as I rode along, I took courage.    Michael knew of my coming, sure enough. I had not been in the house an  hour, when an imposing Embassy arrived from him. He did not quite reach  the impudence of sending my would-be assassins, but he sent the other  three of his famous Six--the three Ruritanian gentlemen--Lauengram,  Krafstein, and Rupert Hentzau. A fine, strapping trio they were,  splendidly horsed and admirably equipped. Young Rupert, who looked  a dare-devil, and could not have been more than twenty-two or  twenty-three, took the lead, and made us the neatest speech, wherein  my devoted subject and loving brother Michael of Strelsau, prayed me to  pardon him for not paying his addresses in person, and, further, for not  putting his Castle at my disposal; the reason for both of these apparent  derelictions being that he and several of his servants lay sick of  scarlet fever, and were in a very sad, and also a very infectious state.  So declared young Rupert with an insolent smile on his curling upper lip  and a toss of his thick hair--he was a handsome villain, and the gossip  ran that many a lady had troubled her heart for him already.    “If my brother has scarlet fever,” said I, “he is nearer my complexion  than he is wont to be, my lord. I trust he does not suffer?”    “He is able to attend to his affairs, sire.”    “I hope all beneath your roof are not sick. What of my good friends, De  Gautet, Bersonin, and Detchard? I heard the last had suffered a hurt.”    Lauengram and Krafstein looked glum and uneasy, but young Rupert’s smile  grew broader.    “He hopes soon to find a medicine for it, sire,” he answered.    And I burst out laughing, for I knew what medicine Detchard longed  for--it is called Revenge.    “You will dine with us, gentlemen?” I asked. 
  “And you?” I asked.    “I do,” he said. “Well, well, the halter be it.”    “I’m sorry you won’t live to see it,” I observed.    “Has his Majesty done me the honour to fasten a particular quarrel on  me?”    “I would you were a few years older, though.”    “Oh, God gives years, but the devil gives increase,” laughed he. “I can  hold my own.”    “How is your prisoner?” I asked.    “The K--?”    “Your prisoner.”    “I forgot your wishes, sire. Well, he is alive.”    He rose to his feet; I imitated him. Then, with a smile, he said:    “And the pretty princess? Faith, I’ll wager the next Elphberg will be  red enough, for all that Black Michael will be called his father.”    I sprang a step towards him, clenching my hand. He did not move an inch,  and his lip curled in insolent amusement.    “Go, while your skin’s whole!” I muttered. He had repaid me with  interest my hit about his mother.    Then came the most audacious thing I have known in my life. My friends  were some thirty yards away. Rupert called to a groom to bring him his  horse, and dismissed the fellow with a crown. The horse stood near. I  stood still, suspecting nothing. Rupert made as though to mount; then  he suddenly turned to me: his left hand resting in his belt, his right  outstretched: “Shake hands,” he said.    I bowed, and did as he had foreseen--I put my hands behind me. Quicker  than thought, his left hand darted out at me, and a small dagger flashed  in the air; he struck me in the left shoulder--had I not swerved, it  had been my heart. With a cry, I staggered back. Without touching the  stirrup, he leapt upon his horse and was off like an arrow, pursued by  cries and revolver shots--the last as useless as the first--and I  sank into my chair, bleeding profusely, as I watched the devil’s brat  disappear down the long avenue. My friends surrounded me, and then I  
 deeds of my life, I love the least to think of this, and whether it were  the act of a man or a traitor I will not ask. I said to myself: “It is  war--and the King’s life is the stake.” And I raised myself from beneath  the pipe and stood up by the boat, which lay moored by the ledge.  Holding my breath, I marked the spot and raised my arm. The great fellow  stirred. He opened his eyes--wide, wider. He grasped in terror at my  face and clutched at his rifle. I struck home. And I heard the chorus of  a love-song from the opposite bank.    Leaving him where he lay, a huddled mass, I turned to “Jacob’s Ladder.”  My time was short. This fellow’s turn of watching might be over  directly, and relief would come. Leaning over the pipe, I examined it,  from the end near the water to the topmost extremity where it passed, or  seemed to pass, through the masonry of the wall. There was no break  in it, no chink. Dropping on my knees, I tested the under side. And  my breath went quick and fast, for on this lower side, where the pipe  should have clung close to the masonry, there was a gleam of light! That  light must come from the cell of the King! I set my shoulder against the  pipe and exerted my strength. The chink widened a very, very little,  and hastily I desisted; I had done enough to show that the pipe was not  fixed in the masonry at the lower side.    Then I heard a voice--a harsh, grating voice:    “Well, sire, if you have had enough of my society, I will leave you to  repose; but I must fasten the little ornaments first.”    It was Detchard! I caught the English accent in a moment.    “Have you anything to ask, sire, before we part?”    The King’s voice followed. It was his, though it was faint and  hollow--different from the merry tones I had heard in the glades of the  forest.    “Pray my brother,” said the King, “to kill me. I am dying by inches 
“You fought as a brave man the other night,” I said. “Come, you are  young, sir. If you will deliver your prisoner alive to me, you shall  come to no hurt.”    He looked at me with a mocking smile; but suddenly he rode nearer to me.    “I’m unarmed,” he said; “and our old Sapt there could pick me off in a  minute.”    “I’m not afraid,” said I.    “No, curse you!” he answered. “Look here, I made you a proposal from the  duke once.”    “I’ll hear nothing from Black Michael,” said I.    “Then hear one from me.” He lowered his voice to a whisper. “Attack the  Castle boldly. Let Sapt and Tarlenheim lead.”    “Go on,” said I.    “Arrange the time with me.”    “I have such confidence in you, my lord!”    “Tut! I’m talking business now. Sapt there and Fritz will fall; Black  Michael will fall--”    “What!”    “--Black Michael will fall, like the dog he is; the prisoner, as you  call him, will go by ‘Jacob’s Ladder’--ah, you know that!--to hell! Two  men will be left--I, Rupert Hentzau, and you, the King of Ruritania.”    He paused, and then, in a voice that quivered with eagerness, added:    “Isn’t that a hand to play?--a throne and your princess! And for me, say  a competence and your Majesty’s gratitude.”    “Surely,” I exclaimed, “while you’re above ground, hell wants its  master!”    “Well, think it over,” he said. “And, look you, it would take more than  a scruple or two to keep me from yonder girl,” and his evil eye flashed  again at her I loved.    “Get out of my reach!” said I; and yet in a moment I began to laugh for  the very audacity of it.    “Would you turn against your master?” I asked.    He swore at Michael for being what the offspring of a legal, though  morganatic, union should not be called, and said to me in an almost  confidential and apparently friendly tone:    “He gets in my way, you know. He’s a jealous brute! Faith, I nearly 
 those of us who are left?”    “They will serve Queen Flavia,” said I, “and I would to God I could be  one of them.”    A pause followed. Old Sapt broke it by saying sadly, yet with an unmeant  drollery that set Fritz and me laughing:    “Why didn’t old Rudolf the Third marry your--great-grandmother, was it?”    “Come,” said I, “it is the King we are thinking about.”    “It is true,” said Fritz.    “Moreover,” I went on, “I have been an impostor for the profit of  another, but I will not be one for my own; and if the King is not alive  and on his throne before the day of betrothal comes, I will tell the  truth, come what may.”    “You shall go, lad,” said Sapt.    Here is the plan I had made. A strong party under Sapt’s command was  to steal up to the door of the chateau. If discovered prematurely, they  were to kill anyone who found them--with their swords, for I wanted no  noise of firing. If all went well, they would be at the door when Johann  opened it. They were to rush in and secure the servants if their mere  presence and the use of the King’s name were not enough. At the same  moment--and on this hinged the plan--a woman’s cry was to ring out loud  and shrill from Antoinette de Mauban’s chamber. Again and again she was  to cry: “Help, help! Michael, help!” and then to utter the name of young  Rupert Hentzau. Then, as we hoped, Michael, in fury, would rush out of  his apartments opposite, and fall alive into the hands of Sapt. Still  the cries would go on; and my men would let down the drawbridge; and it  would be strange if Rupert, hearing his name thus taken in vain, did not  descend from where he slept and seek to cross. De Gautet might or might  not come with him: that must be left to chance.    And when Rupert set his foot on the drawbridge? There was my part: for I  was minded for another swim in the moat; and, lest I should grow weary, 
in my hand, listening eagerly. The duke’s room was shuttered and dark.  There was a light in the window on the opposite side of the bridge.  Not a sound broke the silence, till half-past one chimed from the great  clock in the tower of the chateau.    There were other plots than mine afoot in the Castle that night.          CHAPTER 18    The Forcing of the Trap      The position wherein I stood does not appear very favourable to thought;  yet for the next moment or two I thought profoundly. I had, I told  myself, scored one point. Be Rupert Hentzau’s errand what it might, and  the villainy he was engaged on what it would, I had scored one point. He  was on the other side of the moat from the King, and it would be by no  fault of mine if ever he set foot on the same side again. I had three  left to deal with: two on guard and De Gautet in his bed. Ah, if I  had the keys! I would have risked everything and attacked Detchard and  Bersonin before their friends could join them. But I was powerless. I  must wait till the coming of my friends enticed someone to cross the  bridge--someone with the keys. And I waited, as it seemed, for half an  hour, really for about five minutes, before the next act in the rapid  drama began.    All was still on the other side. The duke’s room remained inscrutable  behind its shutters. The light burnt steadily in Madame de Mauban’s  window. Then I heard the faintest, faintest sound: it came from behind  the door which led to the drawbridge on the other side of the moat. It  but just reached my ear, yet I could not be mistaken as to what it was.  It was made by a key being turned very carefully and slowly. Who was  turning it? And of what room was it the key? There leapt before my eyes  the picture of young Rupert, with the key in one hand, his sword in the  other, and an evil smile on his face. But I did not know what door it 
   Ah, he had found it! A low shout of triumph came from him. He laid  hold of it and began to haul himself up. I was near enough to hear him  mutter: “How the devil comes this here?” I was at the rope, and he,  hanging in mid air, saw me, but I could not reach him.    “Hullo! who’s here?” he cried in startled tones.    For a moment, I believe, he took me for the King--I dare say I was pale  enough to lend colour to the thought; but an instant later he cried:    “Why it’s the play-actor! How come you here, man?”    And so saying he gained the bank.    I laid hold of the rope, but I paused. He stood on the bank, sword in  hand, and he could cut my head open or spit me through the heart as I  came up. I let go the rope.    “Never mind,” said I; “but as I am here, I think I’ll stay.”    He smiled down on me.    “These women are the deuce--” he began; when suddenly the great bell of  the Castle started to ring furiously, and a loud shout reached us from  the moat.    Rupert smiled again, and waved his hand to me.    “I should like a turn with you, but it’s a little too hot!” said he, and  he disappeared from above me.    In an instant, without thinking of danger, I laid my hand to the rope.  I was up. I saw him thirty yards off, running like a deer towards the  shelter of the forest. For once Rupert Hentzau had chosen discretion for  his part. I laid my feet to the ground and rushed after him, calling to  him to stand. He would not. Unwounded and vigorous, he gained on me at  every step; but, forgetting everything in the world except him and my  thirst for his blood, I pressed on, and soon the deep shades of the  forest of Zenda engulfed us both, pursued and pursuer.    It was three o’clock now, and day was dawning. I was on a long straight 
“Madame, the King is here--in the bushes! May I guide you to him,  madame?”    “Nonsense, child!” said old Strakencz; “the King lies wounded in the  Castle.”    “Yes, sir, he’s wounded, I know; but he’s there--with Count Fritz--and  not at the Castle,” she persisted.    “Is he in two places, or are there two Kings?” asked Flavia, bewildered.  “And how should he be there?”    “He pursued a gentleman, madame, and they fought till Count Fritz came;  and the other gentleman took my father’s horse from me and rode away;  but the King is here with Count Fritz. Why, madame, is there another man  in Ruritania like the King?”    “No, my child,” said Flavia softly (I was told it afterwards), and she  smiled and gave the girl money. “I will go and see this gentleman,” and  she rose to alight from the carriage.    But at this moment Sapt came riding from the Castle, and, seeing the  princess, made the best of a bad job, and cried to her that the King was  well tended and in no danger.    “In the Castle?” she asked.    “Where else, madame?” said he, bowing.    “But this girl says he is yonder--with Count Fritz.”    Sapt turned his eyes on the child with an incredulous smile.    “Every fine gentleman is a King to such,” said he.    “Why, he’s as like the King as one pea to another, madame!” cried the  girl, a little shaken but still obstinate.    Sapt started round. The old Marshal’s face asked unspoken questions.  Flavia’s glance was no less eloquent. Suspicion spread quick.    “I’ll ride myself and see this man,” said Sapt hastily.    “Nay, I’ll come myself,” said the princess.    “Then come alone,” he whispered.    And she, obedient to the strange hinting in his face, prayed the Marshal  and the rest to wait; and she and Sapt came on foot towards where we  lay, Sapt waving to the farm-girl to keep at a distance. And when I saw  them coming, I sat in a sad heap on the ground, and buried my face in my 
 that would not die. The soft, sweet, pitiful music rose and fell as we  stood opposite one another, her hands in mine.    “My queen and my beauty!” said I.    “My lover and true knight!” she said. “Perhaps we shall never see one  another again. Kiss me, my dear, and go!”    I kissed her as she bade me; but at the last she clung to me, whispering  nothing but my name, and that over and over again--and again--and again;  and then I left her.    Rapidly I walked down to the bridge. Sapt and Fritz were waiting for me.  Under their directions I changed my dress, and muffling my face, as I  had done more than once before, I mounted with them at the door of the  Castle, and we three rode through the night and on to the breaking day,  and found ourselves at a little roadside station just over the border  of Ruritania. The train was not quite due, and I walked with them in a  meadow by a little brook while we waited for it. They promised to  send me all news; they overwhelmed me with kindness--even old Sapt was  touched to gentleness, while Fritz was half unmanned. I listened in a  kind of dream to all they said. “Rudolf! Rudolf! Rudolf!” still rang in  my ears--a burden of sorrow and of love. At last they saw that I could  not heed them, and we walked up and down in silence, till Fritz touched  me on the arm, and I saw, a mile or more away, the blue smoke of the  train. Then I held out a hand to each of them.    “We are all but half-men this morning,” said I, smiling. “But we have  been men, eh, Sapt and Fritz, old friends? We have run a good course  between us.”    “We have defeated traitors and set the King firm on his throne,” said  Sapt.    Then Fritz von Tarlenheim suddenly, before I could discern his purpose  or stay him, uncovered his head and bent as he used to do, and kissed my  hand; and as I snatched it away, he said, trying to laugh:  
