XI  IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG SECURES A CURIOUS MEANS OF CONVEYANCE  AT A FABULOUS PRICE    XII  IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG AND HIS COMPANIONS VENTURE ACROSS THE  INDIAN FORESTS, AND WHAT ENSUED    XIII  IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT RECEIVES A NEW PROOF THAT FORTUNE FAVORS  THE BRAVE    XIV  IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG DESCENDS THE WHOLE LENGTH OF THE BEAUTIFUL  VALLEY OF THE GANGES WITHOUT EVER THINKING OF SEEING IT    XV  IN WHICH THE BAG OF BANKNOTES DISGORGES SOME THOUSANDS OF POUNDS  MORE    XVI  IN WHICH FIX DOES NOT SEEM TO UNDERSTAND IN THE LEAST WHAT IS  SAID TO HIM    XVII  SHOWING WHAT HAPPENED ON THE VOYAGE FROM SINGAPORE TO HONG KONG    XVIII  IN WHICH PHILEAS FOGG, PASSEPARTOUT, AND FIX GO EACH ABOUT HIS  BUSINESS    XIX  IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT TAKES A TOO GREAT INTEREST IN HIS MASTER,  AND WHAT COMES OF IT    XX  IN WHICH FIX COMES FACE TO FACE WITH PHILEAS FOGG    XXI  IN WHICH THE MASTER OF THE "TANKADERE" RUNS GREAT RISK OF LOSING  A REWARD OF TWO HUNDRED POUNDS    XXII  IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT FINDS OUT THAT, EVEN AT THE ANTIPODES,  IT IS CONVENIENT TO HAVE SOME MONEY IN ONE'S POCKET    XXIII  IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT'S NOSE BECOMES OUTRAGEOUSLY LONG    XXIV  DURING WHICH MR. FOGG AND PARTY CROSS THE PACIFIC OCEAN 
 "Oh," replied Stuart, "the Bank will lose the money."    "On the contrary," broke in Ralph, "I hope we may put our hands on the  robber.  Skilful detectives have been sent to all the principal ports  of America and the Continent, and he'll be a clever fellow if he slips  through their fingers."    "But have you got the robber's description?" asked Stuart.    "In the first place, he is no robber at all," returned Ralph,  positively.    "What! a fellow who makes off with fifty-five thousand pounds, no  robber?"    "No."    "Perhaps he's a manufacturer, then."    "The Daily Telegraph says that he is a gentleman."    It was Phileas Fogg, whose head now emerged from behind his newspapers,  who made this remark.  He bowed to his friends, and entered into the  conversation.  The affair which formed its subject, and which was town  talk, had occurred three days before at the Bank of England.  A package  of banknotes, to the value of fifty-five thousand pounds, had been  taken from the principal cashier's table, that functionary being at the  moment engaged in registering the receipt of three shillings and  sixpence.  Of course, he could not have his eyes everywhere.  Let it be  observed that the Bank of England reposes a touching confidence in the  honesty of the public.  There are neither guards nor gratings to  protect its treasures; gold, silver, banknotes are freely exposed, at  the mercy of the first comer.  A keen observer of English customs  relates that, being in one of the rooms of the Bank one day, he had the  curiosity to examine a gold ingot weighing some seven or eight pounds.  He took it up, scrutinised it, passed it to his neighbour, he to the  next man, and so on until the ingot, going from hand to hand, was  transferred to the end of a dark entry; nor did it return to its place  for half an hour.  Meanwhile, the cashier had not so much as raised his  head.  But in the present instance things had not gone so smoothly.  The package of notes not being found when five o'clock sounded from the 
Phileas Fogg rightly suspected that his departure from London would  create a lively sensation at the West End.  The news of the bet spread  through the Reform Club, and afforded an exciting topic of conversation  to its members.  From the club it soon got into the papers throughout  England.  The boasted "tour of the world" was talked about, disputed,  argued with as much warmth as if the subject were another Alabama  claim.  Some took sides with Phileas Fogg, but the large majority shook  their heads and declared against him; it was absurd, impossible, they  declared, that the tour of the world could be made, except  theoretically and on paper, in this minimum of time, and with the  existing means of travelling.  The Times, Standard, Morning Post, and  Daily News, and twenty other highly respectable newspapers scouted Mr.  Fogg's project as madness; the Daily Telegraph alone hesitatingly  supported him.  People in general thought him a lunatic, and blamed his  Reform Club friends for having accepted a wager which betrayed the  mental aberration of its proposer.    Articles no less passionate than logical appeared on the question, for  geography is one of the pet subjects of the English; and the columns  devoted to Phileas Fogg's venture were eagerly devoured by all classes  of readers.  At first some rash individuals, principally of the gentler  sex, espoused his cause, which became still more popular when the  Illustrated London News came out with his portrait, copied from a  photograph in the Reform Club.  A few readers of the Daily Telegraph  even dared to say, "Why not, after all?  Stranger things have come to  pass."    At last a long article appeared, on the 7th of October, in the bulletin  of the Royal Geographical Society, which treated the question from  every point of view, and demonstrated the utter folly of the enterprise.    Everything, it said, was against the travellers, every obstacle imposed  alike by man and by nature.  A miraculous agreement of the times of  departure and arrival, which was impossible, was absolutely necessary  to his success.  He might, perhaps, reckon on the arrival of trains at  the designated hours, in Europe, where the distances were relatively 
 the quay, as if he did not feel that he, at least, was obliged not to  see anything.    "Well, my friend," said the detective, coming up with him, "is your  passport visaed?"    "Ah, it's you, is it, monsieur?" responded Passepartout.  "Thanks, yes,  the passport is all right."    "And you are looking about you?"    "Yes; but we travel so fast that I seem to be journeying in a dream.  So this is Suez?"    "Yes."    "In Egypt?"    "Certainly, in Egypt."    "And in Africa?"    "In Africa."    "In Africa!" repeated Passepartout.  "Just think, monsieur, I had no  idea that we should go farther than Paris; and all that I saw of Paris  was between twenty minutes past seven and twenty minutes before nine in  the morning, between the Northern and the Lyons stations, through the  windows of a car, and in a driving rain!  How I regret not having seen  once more Pere la Chaise and the circus in the Champs Elysees!"    "You are in a great hurry, then?"    "I am not, but my master is.  By the way, I must buy some shoes and  shirts.  We came away without trunks, only with a carpet-bag."    "I will show you an excellent shop for getting what you want."    "Really, monsieur, you are very kind."    And they walked off together, Passepartout chatting volubly as they  went along.    "Above all," said he; "don't let me lose the steamer."    "You have plenty of time; it's only twelve o'clock."    Passepartout pulled out his big watch.  "Twelve!" he exclaimed; "why,  it's only eight minutes before ten."    "Your watch is slow."    "My watch?  A family watch, monsieur, which has come down from my  great-grandfather!  It doesn't vary five minutes in the year.  It's a  perfect chronometer, look you."    "I see how it is," said Fix.  "You have kept London time, which is two  hours behind that of Suez.  You ought to regulate your watch at noon in 
route, traverses the peninsula from Bombay to Calcutta in three days.  This railway does not run in a direct line across India.  The distance  between Bombay and Calcutta, as the bird flies, is only from one  thousand to eleven hundred miles; but the deflections of the road  increase this distance by more than a third.    The general route of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway is as follows:  Leaving Bombay, it passes through Salcette, crossing to the continent  opposite Tannah, goes over the chain of the Western Ghauts, runs thence  north-east as far as Burhampoor, skirts the nearly independent  territory of Bundelcund, ascends to Allahabad, turns thence eastwardly,  meeting the Ganges at Benares, then departs from the river a little,  and, descending south-eastward by Burdivan and the French town of  Chandernagor, has its terminus at Calcutta.    The passengers of the Mongolia went ashore at half-past four p.m.; at  exactly eight the train would start for Calcutta.    Mr. Fogg, after bidding good-bye to his whist partners, left the  steamer, gave his servant several errands to do, urged it upon him to  be at the station promptly at eight, and, with his regular step, which  beat to the second, like an astronomical clock, directed his steps to  the passport office.  As for the wonders of Bombay--its famous city  hall, its splendid library, its forts and docks, its bazaars, mosques,  synagogues, its Armenian churches, and the noble pagoda on Malabar  Hill, with its two polygonal towers--he cared not a straw to see them.  He would not deign to examine even the masterpieces of Elephanta, or  the mysterious hypogea, concealed south-east from the docks, or those  fine remains of Buddhist architecture, the Kanherian grottoes of the  island of Salcette.    Having transacted his business at the passport office, Phileas Fogg  repaired quietly to the railway station, where he ordered dinner.  Among the dishes served up to him, the landlord especially recommended  a certain giblet of "native rabbit," on which he prided himself.    Mr. Fogg accordingly tasted the dish, but, despite its spiced sauce,  found it far from palatable.  He rang for the landlord, and, on his  appearance, said, fixing his clear eyes upon him, "Is this rabbit, sir?" 
 reach Allahabad, his owner would receive no less than six hundred  pounds sterling.    Phileas Fogg, without getting in the least flurried, then proposed to  purchase the animal outright, and at first offered a thousand pounds  for him.  The Indian, perhaps thinking he was going to make a great  bargain, still refused.    Sir Francis Cromarty took Mr. Fogg aside, and begged him to reflect  before he went any further; to which that gentleman replied that he was  not in the habit of acting rashly, that a bet of twenty thousand pounds  was at stake, that the elephant was absolutely necessary to him, and  that he would secure him if he had to pay twenty times his value.  Returning to the Indian, whose small, sharp eyes, glistening with  avarice, betrayed that with him it was only a question of how great a  price he could obtain.  Mr. Fogg offered first twelve hundred, then  fifteen hundred, eighteen hundred, two thousand pounds.  Passepartout,  usually so rubicund, was fairly white with suspense.    At two thousand pounds the Indian yielded.    "What a price, good heavens!" cried Passepartout, "for an elephant."    It only remained now to find a guide, which was comparatively easy.  A  young Parsee, with an intelligent face, offered his services, which Mr.  Fogg accepted, promising so generous a reward as to materially  stimulate his zeal.  The elephant was led out and equipped.  The  Parsee, who was an accomplished elephant driver, covered his back with  a sort of saddle-cloth, and attached to each of his flanks some  curiously uncomfortable howdahs.  Phileas Fogg paid the Indian with  some banknotes which he extracted from the famous carpet-bag, a  proceeding that seemed to deprive poor Passepartout of his vitals.  Then he offered to carry Sir Francis to Allahabad, which the brigadier  gratefully accepted, as one traveller the more would not be likely to  fatigue the gigantic beast.  Provisions were purchased at Kholby, and,  while Sir Francis and Mr. Fogg took the howdahs on either side,  Passepartout got astride the saddle-cloth between them.  The Parsee  perched himself on the elephant's neck, and at nine o'clock they set 
"It is only eight now," said the brigadier, "and these guards may also  go to sleep."    "It is not impossible," returned the Parsee.    They lay down at the foot of a tree, and waited.    The time seemed long; the guide ever and anon left them to take an  observation on the edge of the wood, but the guards watched steadily by  the glare of the torches, and a dim light crept through the windows of  the pagoda.    They waited till midnight; but no change took place among the guards,  and it became apparent that their yielding to sleep could not be  counted on.  The other plan must be carried out; an opening in the  walls of the pagoda must be made.  It remained to ascertain whether the  priests were watching by the side of their victim as assiduously as  were the soldiers at the door.    After a last consultation, the guide announced that he was ready for  the attempt, and advanced, followed by the others.  They took a  roundabout way, so as to get at the pagoda on the rear.  They reached  the walls about half-past twelve, without having met anyone; here there  was no guard, nor were there either windows or doors.    The night was dark.  The moon, on the wane, scarcely left the horizon,  and was covered with heavy clouds; the height of the trees deepened the  darkness.    It was not enough to reach the walls; an opening in them must be  accomplished, and to attain this purpose the party only had their  pocket-knives.  Happily the temple walls were built of brick and wood,  which could be penetrated with little difficulty; after one brick had  been taken out, the rest would yield easily.    They set noiselessly to work, and the Parsee on one side and  Passepartout on the other began to loosen the bricks so as to make an  aperture two feet wide.  They were getting on rapidly, when suddenly a  cry was heard in the interior of the temple, followed almost instantly  by other cries replying from the outside.  Passepartout and the guide 
 miserable, dirty huts, and squalid population; then through the  "European town," which presented a relief in its bright brick mansions,  shaded by coconut-trees and bristling with masts, where, although it  was early morning, elegantly dressed horsemen and handsome equipages  were passing back and forth.    The carriage stopped before a modest-looking house, which, however, did  not have the appearance of a private mansion.  The policeman having  requested his prisoners--for so, truly, they might be called--to descend,  conducted them into a room with barred windows, and said:  "You will  appear before Judge Obadiah at half-past eight."    He then retired, and closed the door.    "Why, we are prisoners!" exclaimed Passepartout, falling into a chair.    Aouda, with an emotion she tried to conceal, said to Mr. Fogg: "Sir,  you must leave me to my fate!  It is on my account that you receive  this treatment, it is for having saved me!"    Phileas Fogg contented himself with saying that it was impossible.  It  was quite unlikely that he should be arrested for preventing a suttee.  The complainants would not dare present themselves with such a charge.  There was some mistake.  Moreover, he would not, in any event, abandon  Aouda, but would escort her to Hong Kong.    "But the steamer leaves at noon!" observed Passepartout, nervously.    "We shall be on board by noon," replied his master, placidly.    It was said so positively that Passepartout could not help muttering to  himself, "Parbleu that's certain!  Before noon we shall be on board."  But he was by no means reassured.    At half-past eight the door opened, the policeman appeared, and,  requesting them to follow him, led the way to an adjoining hall.  It  was evidently a court-room, and a crowd of Europeans and natives  already occupied the rear of the apartment.    Mr. Fogg and his two companions took their places on a bench opposite  the desks of the magistrate and his clerk.  Immediately after, Judge  Obadiah, a fat, round man, followed by the clerk, entered.  He  proceeded to take down a wig which was hanging on a nail, and put it 
familiar with the last events, seemed to be equally ignorant of all  that Passepartout related; and the later was charmed to find so  interested a listener.    "But does your master propose to carry this young woman to Europe?"    "Not at all.  We are simply going to place her under the protection of  one of her relatives, a rich merchant at Hong Kong."    "Nothing to be done there," said Fix to himself, concealing his  disappointment.  "A glass of gin, Mr. Passepartout?"    "Willingly, Monsieur Fix.  We must at least have a friendly glass on  board the Rangoon."          Chapter XVII    SHOWING WHAT HAPPENED ON THE VOYAGE FROM SINGAPORE TO HONG KONG      The detective and Passepartout met often on deck after this interview,  though Fix was reserved, and did not attempt to induce his companion to  divulge any more facts concerning Mr. Fogg.  He caught a glimpse of  that mysterious gentleman once or twice; but Mr. Fogg usually confined  himself to the cabin, where he kept Aouda company, or, according to his  inveterate habit, took a hand at whist.    Passepartout began very seriously to conjecture what strange chance  kept Fix still on the route that his master was pursuing.  It was  really worth considering why this certainly very amiable and complacent  person, whom he had first met at Suez, had then encountered on board  the Mongolia, who disembarked at Bombay, which he announced as his  destination, and now turned up so unexpectedly on the Rangoon, was  following Mr. Fogg's tracks step by step.  What was Fix's object?  Passepartout was ready to wager his Indian shoes--which he religiously  preserved--that Fix would also leave Hong Kong at the same time with  them, and probably on the same steamer.    Passepartout might have cudgelled his brain for a century without  hitting upon the real object which the detective had in view.  He never  could have imagined that Phileas Fogg was being tracked as a robber  around the globe.  But, as it is in human nature to attempt the  solution of every mystery, Passepartout suddenly discovered an 
 wharves, a Gothic cathedral, a government house, macadamised streets,  give to Hong Kong the appearance of a town in Kent or Surrey  transferred by some strange magic to the antipodes.    Passepartout wandered, with his hands in his pockets, towards the  Victoria port, gazing as he went at the curious palanquins and other  modes of conveyance, and the groups of Chinese, Japanese, and Europeans  who passed to and fro in the streets.  Hong Kong seemed to him not  unlike Bombay, Calcutta, and Singapore, since, like them, it betrayed  everywhere the evidence of English supremacy.  At the Victoria port he  found a confused mass of ships of all nations: English, French,  American, and Dutch, men-of-war and trading vessels, Japanese and  Chinese junks, sempas, tankas, and flower-boats, which formed so many  floating parterres.  Passepartout noticed in the crowd a number of the  natives who seemed very old and were dressed in yellow.  On going into  a barber's to get shaved he learned that these ancient men were all at  least eighty years old, at which age they are permitted to wear yellow,  which is the Imperial colour.  Passepartout, without exactly knowing  why, thought this very funny.    On reaching the quay where they were to embark on the Carnatic, he was  not astonished to find Fix walking up and down.  The detective seemed  very much disturbed and disappointed.    "This is bad," muttered Passepartout, "for the gentlemen of the Reform  Club!"  He accosted Fix with a merry smile, as if he had not perceived  that gentleman's chagrin.  The detective had, indeed, good reasons to  inveigh against the bad luck which pursued him.  The warrant had not  come!  It was certainly on the way, but as certainly it could not now  reach Hong Kong for several days; and, this being the last English  territory on Mr. Fogg's route, the robber would escape, unless he could  manage to detain him.    "Well, Monsieur Fix," said Passepartout, "have you decided to go with  us so far as America?"    "Yes," returned Fix, through his set teeth.    "Good!" exclaimed Passepartout, laughing heartily.  "I knew you could 
  "Well, pilot?" said Mr. Fogg.    "Well, your honour," replied he, "I could not risk myself, my men, or  my little boat of scarcely twenty tons on so long a voyage at this time  of year.  Besides, we could not reach Yokohama in time, for it is  sixteen hundred and sixty miles from Hong Kong."    "Only sixteen hundred," said Mr. Fogg.    "It's the same thing."    Fix breathed more freely.    "But," added the pilot, "it might be arranged another way."    Fix ceased to breathe at all.    "How?" asked Mr. Fogg.    "By going to Nagasaki, at the extreme south of Japan, or even to  Shanghai, which is only eight hundred miles from here.  In going to  Shanghai we should not be forced to sail wide of the Chinese coast,  which would be a great advantage, as the currents run northward, and  would aid us."    "Pilot," said Mr. Fogg, "I must take the American steamer at Yokohama,  and not at Shanghai or Nagasaki."    "Why not?" returned the pilot.  "The San Francisco steamer does not  start from Yokohama.  It puts in at Yokohama and Nagasaki, but it  starts from Shanghai."    "You are sure of that?"    "Perfectly."    "And when does the boat leave Shanghai?"    "On the 11th, at seven in the evening.  We have, therefore, four days  before us, that is ninety-six hours; and in that time, if we had good  luck and a south-west wind, and the sea was calm, we could make those  eight hundred miles to Shanghai."    "And you could go--"    "In an hour; as soon as provisions could be got aboard and the sails  put up."    "It is a bargain.  Are you the master of the boat?"    "Yes; John Bunsby, master of the Tankadere."    "Would you like some earnest-money?"    "If it would not put your honour out--"    "Here are two hundred pounds on account sir," added Phileas Fogg,  turning to Fix, "if you would like to take advantage--" 
 At this moment, also, a long black funnel, crowned with wreaths of  smoke, appeared on the edge of the waters.  It was the American  steamer, leaving for Yokohama at the appointed time.    "Confound her!" cried John Bunsby, pushing back the rudder with a  desperate jerk.    "Signal her!" said Phileas Fogg quietly.    A small brass cannon stood on the forward deck of the Tankadere, for  making signals in the fogs.  It was loaded to the muzzle; but just as  the pilot was about to apply a red-hot coal to the touchhole, Mr. Fogg  said, "Hoist your flag!"    The flag was run up at half-mast, and, this being the signal of  distress, it was hoped that the American steamer, perceiving it, would  change her course a little, so as to succour the pilot-boat.    "Fire!" said Mr. Fogg.  And the booming of the little cannon resounded  in the air.          Chapter XXII    IN WHICH PASSEPARTOUT FINDS OUT THAT, EVEN AT THE ANTIPODES, IT IS  CONVENIENT TO HAVE SOME MONEY IN ONE'S POCKET      The Carnatic, setting sail from Hong Kong at half-past six on the 7th  of November, directed her course at full steam towards Japan.  She  carried a large cargo and a well-filled cabin of passengers.  Two  state-rooms in the rear were, however, unoccupied--those which had been  engaged by Phileas Fogg.    The next day a passenger with a half-stupefied eye, staggering gait,  and disordered hair, was seen to emerge from the second cabin, and to  totter to a seat on deck.    It was Passepartout; and what had happened to him was as follows:  Shortly after Fix left the opium den, two waiters had lifted the  unconscious Passepartout, and had carried him to the bed reserved for  the smokers.  Three hours later, pursued even in his dreams by a fixed  idea, the poor fellow awoke, and struggled against the stupefying  influence of the narcotic.  The thought of a duty unfulfilled shook off  his torpor, and he hurried from the abode of drunkenness.  Staggering  and holding himself up by keeping against the walls, falling down and 
  Passepartout had at last found something to do.  He was engaged to act  in the celebrated Japanese troupe.  It was not a very dignified  position, but within a week he would be on his way to San Francisco.    The performance, so noisily announced by the Honourable Mr. Batulcar,  was to commence at three o'clock, and soon the deafening instruments of  a Japanese orchestra resounded at the door.  Passepartout, though he  had not been able to study or rehearse a part, was designated to lend  the aid of his sturdy shoulders in the great exhibition of the "human  pyramid," executed by the Long Noses of the god Tingou.  This "great  attraction" was to close the performance.    Before three o'clock the large shed was invaded by the spectators,  comprising Europeans and natives, Chinese and Japanese, men, women and  children, who precipitated themselves upon the narrow benches and into  the boxes opposite the stage.  The musicians took up a position inside,  and were vigorously performing on their gongs, tam-tams, flutes, bones,  tambourines, and immense drums.    The performance was much like all acrobatic displays; but it must be  confessed that the Japanese are the first equilibrists in the world.    One, with a fan and some bits of paper, performed the graceful trick of  the butterflies and the flowers; another traced in the air, with the  odorous smoke of his pipe, a series of blue words, which composed a  compliment to the audience; while a third juggled with some lighted  candles, which he extinguished successively as they passed his lips,  and relit again without interrupting for an instant his juggling.  Another reproduced the most singular combinations with a spinning-top;  in his hands the revolving tops seemed to be animated with a life of  their own in their interminable whirling; they ran over pipe-stems, the  edges of sabres, wires and even hairs stretched across the stage; they  turned around on the edges of large glasses, crossed bamboo ladders,  dispersed into all the corners, and produced strange musical effects by  the combination of their various pitches of tone.  The jugglers tossed  them in the air, threw them like shuttlecocks with wooden battledores, 
 After breakfast, Mr. Fogg, accompanied by Aouda, started for the  English consulate to have his passport visaed.  As he was going out, he  met Passepartout, who asked him if it would not be well, before taking  the train, to purchase some dozens of Enfield rifles and Colt's  revolvers.  He had been listening to stories of attacks upon the trains  by the Sioux and Pawnees.  Mr. Fogg thought it a useless precaution,  but told him to do as he thought best, and went on to the consulate.    He had not proceeded two hundred steps, however, when, "by the greatest  chance in the world," he met Fix.  The detective seemed wholly taken by  surprise.  What!  Had Mr. Fogg and himself crossed the Pacific  together, and not met on the steamer!  At least Fix felt honoured to  behold once more the gentleman to whom he owed so much, and, as his  business recalled him to Europe, he should be delighted to continue the  journey in such pleasant company.    Mr. Fogg replied that the honour would be his; and the detective--who  was determined not to lose sight of him--begged permission to accompany  them in their walk about San Francisco--a request which Mr. Fogg  readily granted.    They soon found themselves in Montgomery Street, where a great crowd  was collected; the side-walks, street, horsecar rails, the shop-doors,  the windows of the houses, and even the roofs, were full of people.  Men were going about carrying large posters, and flags and streamers  were floating in the wind; while loud cries were heard on every hand.    "Hurrah for Camerfield!"    "Hurrah for Mandiboy!"    It was a political meeting; at least so Fix conjectured, who said to  Mr. Fogg, "Perhaps we had better not mingle with the crowd.  There may  be danger in it."    "Yes," returned Mr. Fogg; "and blows, even if they are political are  still blows."    Fix smiled at this remark; and, in order to be able to see without  being jostled about, the party took up a position on the top of a  flight of steps situated at the upper end of Montgomery Street. 
  The news quickly spread through the train, which contained about one  hundred passengers, thirty of whom, at most, attracted by the notice,  ensconced themselves in car No. 117.  Passepartout took one of the  front seats.  Neither Mr. Fogg nor Fix cared to attend.    At the appointed hour Elder William Hitch rose, and, in an irritated  voice, as if he had already been contradicted, said, "I tell you that  Joe Smith is a martyr, that his brother Hiram is a martyr, and that the  persecutions of the United States Government against the prophets will  also make a martyr of Brigham Young.  Who dares to say the contrary?"    No one ventured to gainsay the missionary, whose excited tone  contrasted curiously with his naturally calm visage.  No doubt his  anger arose from the hardships to which the Mormons were actually  subjected.  The government had just succeeded, with some difficulty, in  reducing these independent fanatics to its rule.  It had made itself  master of Utah, and subjected that territory to the laws of the Union,  after imprisoning Brigham Young on a charge of rebellion and polygamy.  The disciples of the prophet had since redoubled their efforts, and  resisted, by words at least, the authority of Congress.  Elder Hitch,  as is seen, was trying to make proselytes on the very railway trains.    Then, emphasising his words with his loud voice and frequent gestures,  he related the history of the Mormons from Biblical times: how that, in  Israel, a Mormon prophet of the tribe of Joseph published the annals of  the new religion, and bequeathed them to his son Mormon; how, many  centuries later, a translation of this precious book, which was written  in Egyptian, was made by Joseph Smith, junior, a Vermont farmer, who  revealed himself as a mystical prophet in 1825; and how, in short, the  celestial messenger appeared to him in an illuminated forest, and gave  him the annals of the Lord.    Several of the audience, not being much interested in the missionary's  narrative, here left the car; but Elder Hitch, continuing his lecture,  related how Smith, junior, with his father, two brothers, and a few 
 and the conductor; and Passepartout, who was furious, was not  disinclined to make common cause with him.  Here was an obstacle,  indeed, which all his master's banknotes could not remove.    There was a general disappointment among the passengers, who, without  reckoning the delay, saw themselves compelled to trudge fifteen miles  over a plain covered with snow.  They grumbled and protested, and would  certainly have thus attracted Phileas Fogg's attention if he had not  been completely absorbed in his game.    Passepartout found that he could not avoid telling his master what had  occurred, and, with hanging head, he was turning towards the car, when  the engineer, a true Yankee, named Forster called out, "Gentlemen,  perhaps there is a way, after all, to get over."    "On the bridge?" asked a passenger.    "On the bridge."    "With our train?"    "With our train."    Passepartout stopped short, and eagerly listened to the engineer.    "But the bridge is unsafe," urged the conductor.    "No matter," replied Forster; "I think that by putting on the very  highest speed we might have a chance of getting over."    "The devil!" muttered Passepartout.    But a number of the passengers were at once attracted by the engineer's  proposal, and Colonel Proctor was especially delighted, and found the  plan a very feasible one.  He told stories about engineers leaping  their trains over rivers without bridges, by putting on full steam; and  many of those present avowed themselves of the engineer's mind.    "We have fifty chances out of a hundred of getting over," said one.    "Eighty! ninety!"    Passepartout was astounded, and, though ready to attempt anything to  get over Medicine Creek, thought the experiment proposed a little too  American.  "Besides," thought he, "there's a still more simple way, and  it does not even occur to any of these people!  Sir," said he aloud to  one of the passengers, "the engineer's plan seems to me a little  dangerous, but--"    "Eighty chances!" replied the passenger, turning his back on him.    "I know it," said Passepartout, turning to another passenger, "but a 
killed in the struggle?  Were they taken prisoners by the Sioux?  It  was impossible to tell.    There were many wounded, but none mortally.  Colonel Proctor was one of  the most seriously hurt; he had fought bravely, and a ball had entered  his groin.  He was carried into the station with the other wounded  passengers, to receive such attention as could be of avail.    Aouda was safe; and Phileas Fogg, who had been in the thickest of the  fight, had not received a scratch.  Fix was slightly wounded in the  arm.  But Passepartout was not to be found, and tears coursed down  Aouda's cheeks.    All the passengers had got out of the train, the wheels of which were  stained with blood.  From the tyres and spokes hung ragged pieces of  flesh.  As far as the eye could reach on the white plain behind, red  trails were visible.  The last Sioux were disappearing in the south,  along the banks of Republican River.    Mr. Fogg, with folded arms, remained motionless.  He had a serious  decision to make.  Aouda, standing near him, looked at him without  speaking, and he understood her look.  If his servant was a prisoner,  ought he not to risk everything to rescue him from the Indians?  "I  will find him, living or dead," said he quietly to Aouda.    "Ah, Mr.--Mr. Fogg!" cried she, clasping his hands and covering them  with tears.    "Living," added Mr. Fogg, "if we do not lose a moment."    Phileas Fogg, by this resolution, inevitably sacrificed himself; he  pronounced his own doom.  The delay of a single day would make him lose  the steamer at New York, and his bet would be certainly lost.  But as  he thought, "It is my duty," he did not hesitate.    The commanding officer of Fort Kearney was there.  A hundred of his  soldiers had placed themselves in a position to defend the station,  should the Sioux attack it.    "Sir," said Mr. Fogg to the captain, "three passengers have  disappeared."    "Dead?" asked the captain. 
 mast, which, however, the metallic lashings held firmly.  These  lashings, like the chords of a stringed instrument, resounded as if  vibrated by a violin bow.  The sledge slid along in the midst of a  plaintively intense melody.    "Those chords give the fifth and the octave," said Mr. Fogg.    These were the only words he uttered during the journey.  Aouda, cosily  packed in furs and cloaks, was sheltered as much as possible from the  attacks of the freezing wind.  As for Passepartout, his face was as red  as the sun's disc when it sets in the mist, and he laboriously inhaled  the biting air.  With his natural buoyancy of spirits, he began to hope  again.  They would reach New York on the evening, if not on the  morning, of the 11th, and there was still some chances that it would be  before the steamer sailed for Liverpool.    Passepartout even felt a strong desire to grasp his ally, Fix, by the  hand.  He remembered that it was the detective who procured the sledge,  the only means of reaching Omaha in time; but, checked by some  presentiment, he kept his usual reserve.  One thing, however,  Passepartout would never forget, and that was the sacrifice which Mr.  Fogg had made, without hesitation, to rescue him from the Sioux.  Mr.  Fogg had risked his fortune and his life. No!  His servant would never  forget that!    While each of the party was absorbed in reflections so different, the  sledge flew past over the vast carpet of snow.  The creeks it passed  over were not perceived.  Fields and streams disappeared under the  uniform whiteness.  The plain was absolutely deserted.  Between the  Union Pacific road and the branch which unites Kearney with Saint  Joseph it formed a great uninhabited island.  Neither village, station,  nor fort appeared.  From time to time they sped by some phantom-like  tree, whose white skeleton twisted and rattled in the wind.  Sometimes  flocks of wild birds rose, or bands of gaunt, famished, ferocious  prairie-wolves ran howling after the sledge.  Passepartout, revolver in  hand, held himself ready to fire on those which came too near.  Had an 
"Ass!" replied the detective, shrugging his shoulders and turning on  his heel.    Passepartout was on the point of vigorously resenting the epithet, the  reason of which he could not for the life of him comprehend; but he  reflected that the unfortunate Fix was probably very much disappointed  and humiliated in his self-esteem, after having so awkwardly followed a  false scent around the world, and refrained.    And now what course would Phileas Fogg adopt?  It was difficult to  imagine.  Nevertheless he seemed to have decided upon one, for that  evening he sent for the engineer, and said to him, "Feed all the fires  until the coal is exhausted."    A few moments after, the funnel of the Henrietta vomited forth torrents  of smoke.  The vessel continued to proceed with all steam on; but on  the 18th, the engineer, as he had predicted, announced that the coal  would give out in the course of the day.    "Do not let the fires go down," replied Mr. Fogg.  "Keep them up to the  last.  Let the valves be filled."    Towards noon Phileas Fogg, having ascertained their position, called  Passepartout, and ordered him to go for Captain Speedy.  It was as if  the honest fellow had been commanded to unchain a tiger.  He went to  the poop, saying to himself, "He will be like a madman!"    In a few moments, with cries and oaths, a bomb appeared on the  poop-deck.  The bomb was Captain Speedy.  It was clear that he was on  the point of bursting.  "Where are we?"  were the first words his anger  permitted him to utter.  Had the poor man been an apoplectic, he could  never have recovered from his paroxysm of wrath.    "Where are we?" he repeated, with purple face.    "Seven hundred and seven miles from Liverpool," replied Mr. Fogg, with  imperturbable calmness.    "Pirate!" cried Captain Speedy.    "I have sent for you, sir--"    "Pickaroon!"    "--sir," continued Mr. Fogg, "to ask you to sell me your vessel."    "No!  By all the devils, no!" 
 stairs.  The hours were long for him. He listened at his master's door,  and looked through the keyhole, as if he had a perfect right so to do,  and as if he feared that something terrible might happen at any moment.  Sometimes he thought of Fix, but no longer in anger.  Fix, like all the  world, had been mistaken in Phileas Fogg, and had only done his duty in  tracking and arresting him; while he, Passepartout. . . .  This thought  haunted him, and he never ceased cursing his miserable folly.    Finding himself too wretched to remain alone, he knocked at Aouda's  door, went into her room, seated himself, without speaking, in a  corner, and looked ruefully at the young woman. Aouda was still pensive.    About half-past seven in the evening Mr. Fogg sent to know if Aouda  would receive him, and in a few moments he found himself alone with her.    Phileas Fogg took a chair, and sat down near the fireplace, opposite  Aouda.  No emotion was visible on his face.  Fogg returned was exactly  the Fogg who had gone away; there was the same calm, the same  impassibility.    He sat several minutes without speaking; then, bending his eyes on  Aouda, "Madam," said he, "will you pardon me for bringing you to  England?"    "I, Mr. Fogg!" replied Aouda, checking the pulsations of her heart.    "Please let me finish," returned Mr. Fogg.  "When I decided to bring  you far away from the country which was so unsafe for you, I was rich,  and counted on putting a portion of my fortune at your disposal; then  your existence would have been free and happy.  But now I am ruined."    "I know it, Mr. Fogg," replied Aouda; "and I ask you in my turn, will  you forgive me for having followed you, and--who knows?--for having,  perhaps, delayed you, and thus contributed to your ruin?"    "Madam, you could not remain in India, and your safety could only be  assured by bringing you to such a distance that your persecutors could  not take you."    "So, Mr. Fogg," resumed Aouda, "not content with rescuing me from a 
