IX.--THE LAMP THAT NEVER WENT OUT  X.--THE BRANCH LINE  XI.--A STUDENT OF MEN  XII.--BONES HITS BACK          BONES IN LONDON      CHAPTER I    BONES AND BIG BUSINESS    There was a slump in the shipping market, and men who were otherwise  decent citizens wailed for one hour of glorious war, when Kenyon Line  Deferred had stood at 88 1/2, and even so poor an organization as  Siddons Steam Packets Line had been marketable at 3 3/8.    Two bareheaded men came down the busy street, their hands thrust into  their trousers pockets, their sleek, well-oiled heads bent in dejection.    No word they spoke, keeping step with the stern precision of soldiers.  Together they wheeled through the open doors of the Commercial Trust  Building, together they left-turned into the elevator, and  simultaneously raised their heads to examine its roof, as though in its  panelled ceiling was concealed some Delphic oracle who would answer the  riddle which circumstances had set them.    They dropped their heads together and stood with sad eyes, regarding  the attendant's leisurely unlatching of the gate.  They slipped forth  and walked in single file to a suite of offices inscribed "Pole  Brothers, Brokers," and, beneath, "The United Merchant Shippers'  Corporation," and passed through a door which, in addition to this  declaration, bore the footnote "Private."    Here the file divided, one going to one side of a vast pedestal desk  and one to the other.  Still with their hands pushed deep into their  pockets, they sank, almost as at a word of command, each into his  cushioned chair, and stared at one another across the table.    They were stout young men of the middle thirties, clean-shaven and  ruddy.  They had served their country in the late War, and had made  many sacrifices to the common cause.  One had worn uniform and one had  not.  Joe had occupied some mysterious office which permitted and,  indeed, enjoined upon him the wearing of the insignia of captain, but  had forbidden him to leave his native land.  The other had earned a 
   He picked up his hat and his lips were pressed tight--a gesture and a  grimace which stood for grim conviction.    "What are they worth to-day?" asked Bones, after a pause.    "What are they worth to-day?"  Mr. Fred frowned heavily at the ceiling.  "Now, what are they worth to-day?  I forget how much I've spent on  'em--they're in dock now."    Bones tightened _his_ lips, too.    "They're in dock now?" he said.  He scratched his nose.  "Dear old Fred  Pole," he said, "you're a jolly old soul.  By Jove that's not bad!  'Pole' an' 'soul' rhyme--did you notice it?"    Fred had noticed it.    "It's rum," said Bones, shaking his head, "it is rum how things get  about.  How did you know, old fellow-citizen, that I was going in for  shippin'?"    Mr. Fred Pole did not know that Bones was going in for shipping, but he  smiled.    "There are few things that happen in the City that I _don't_ know," he  admitted modestly.    "The Tibbetts Line," said Bones firmly, "will fly a house-flag of  purple and green diagonally--that is, from corner to corner.  There  will be a yellow anchor in a blue wreath in one corner and a capital T  in a red wreath in the other."    "Original, distinctly original," said Fred in wondering admiration.  "Wherever did you get that idea?"    "I get ideas," confessed Bones, blushing, "some times in the night,  sometimes in the day.  The fleet"--Bones liked the sound of the word  and repeated it--"the fleet will consist of the _Augustus_, the  _Sanders_--a dear old friend of mine living at Hindhead--the  _Patricia_--another dear old friend of mine living at Hindhead, too--in  fact, in the same house.  To tell you the truth, dear old Fred Pole,  she's married to the other ship.  And there'll be the _Hamilton_,  another precious old soul, a very, very, very, very dear friend of mine  who's comin' home shortly----"    "Well, what shall we say, Mr. Tibbetts?" said Fred, who had an early  luncheon appointment.  "Would you care to buy the two boats at the same 
exasperated constabulary.  Some day he would fall, and in his fall  bring down her mother.    Mr. Cresta Morris absorbed in the elaboration of the great plan, was  reminded, by the exhaustion of visible refreshment, that certain of his  instructions had not been carried out.    "Wait a minute," he said.  "I told that girl to bring in the kettle at  half-past nine.  I'll go out and get it.  Her royal highness wouldn't  lower herself by bringing it in, I suppose!"    He found the kettle on the kitchen table, but there was no sign of  Marguerite.  This was the culmination of a succession of "slights"  which she had put on him, and in a rage he walked along the passage,  and yelled up the stairs:    "Marguerite!"    There was no reply, and he raced up to her room.  It was empty, but  what was more significant, her dresses and the paraphernalia which  usually ornamented her dressing-table had disappeared.    He came down a very thoughtful man.    "She's hopped," he said laconically.  "I was always afraid of that."    It was fully an hour before he recovered sufficiently to bring his mind  to a scheme of such fascinating possibilities that even his  step-daughter's flight was momentarily forgotten    *      *      *      *      *    On the following morning Mr. Tibbetts received a visitor.    That gentleman who was, according to the information supplied by Mr.  Webber, addressed in intimate correspondence as "Dear Bones," was  sitting in his most gorgeous private office, wrestling with a letter to  the eminent firm of Timmins and Timmins, yacht agents, on a matter of a  luckless purchase of his.      "DEAR SIRS GENENTLEMEN" (ran the letter.  Bones wrote as he thought,  thought faster than he wrote, and never opened a dictionary save to  decide a bet)--"I told you I have told you 100000 times that the yacht  _Luana_ I bought from your cleint (a nice cleint I must say!!!) is a 
 Bones off-handedly, after a thorough and searching examination of the  project.  "It is certain to be about three thousand pounds--it may be a  million or two million.  It'll be good for you, dear old stenographer."    She looked at him.    "I have decided," said Bones, playing with his paper-knife, "to allow  you a commission of seven and a half per cent. on all profits.  Seven  and a half per cent. on two million is, roughly, fifty thousand  pounds----"    She laughed her refusal.    "I like to be fair," said Bones.    "You like to be generous," she corrected him, "and because I am a girl,  and pretty----"    "Oh, I say," protested Bones feebly--"oh, really you are not pretty at  all.  I am not influenced by your perfectly horrible young face,  believe me, dear old Miss Marguerite.  Now, I've a sense of fairness, a  sense of justice----"    "Now, listen to me, Mr. Tibbetts."  She swung her chair round to face  him squarely.  "I've got to tell you a little story."    Bones listened to that story with compressed lips and folded arms.  He  was neither shocked nor amazed, and the girl was surprised.    "Hold hard, young miss," he said soberly.  "If this is a jolly old  swindle, and if the naughty mariner----"    "His name is Webber, and he is an actor," she interrupted.    "And dooced well he acted," admitted Bones.  "Well, if this is so, what  about the other johnny who's putting up ten thousand to my fifteen  thousand?"    This was a facer for the girl, and Bones glared his triumph.    "That is what the wicked old ship-sailer said.  Showed me the money,  an' I sent him straight off on the job.  He said he'd got a Stock  Exchange person named Morris----"    "Morris!" gasped the girl.  "That is my step-father!"    Bones jumped up, a man inspired.    "The naughty old One, who married your sainted mother?" he gurgled.  "My miss!  My young an' jolly old Marguerite!" 
"You're clever, ain't you?" he asked.  "You're wise--I don't think!  Look at this!"    He handed the telegram to the nearest of his companions, who was the  tall, thin, and non-explosive partner, and he in turn passed it without  a word to his more choleric companion.    "You don't mean to say he's going to buy it?"    "That's what it says, doesn't it?" said the triumphant Mr. Staines.    "It's a catch," said the explosive man suspiciously.    "Not on your life," replied the scornful Staines.  "Where does the  catch come in?  We've done nothing he could catch us for?"    "Let's have a look at that telegram again," said the thin man, and,  having read it in a dazed way, remarked: "He'll wait for you at the  office until nine.  Well, Jack, nip up and fix that deal.  Take the  transfers with you.  Close it and take his cheque.  Take anything he'll  give you, and get a special clearance in the morning, and, anyway, the  business is straight."    Honest John breathed heavily through his nose and staggered from the  bar, and the suspicious glances of the barman were, for once,  unjustified, for Mr. Staines was labouring under acute emotions.    He found Bones sitting at his desk, a very silent, taciturn Bones, who  greeted him with a nod.    "Sit down," said Bones.  "I'll take that property.  Here's my cheque."    With trembling fingers Mr. Staines prepared the transfers.  It was he  who scoured the office corridors to discover two agitated char-ladies  who were prepared to witness his signature for a consideration.    He folded the cheque for twenty thousand pounds reverently and put it  into his pocket, and was back again at the Stamford Hotel so quickly  that his companions could not believe their eyes.    "Well, this is the rummiest go I have ever known," said the explosive  man profoundly.  "You don't think he expects us to call in the morning  and buy it back, do you?"    Staines shook his head.    "I know he doesn't," he said grimly.  "In fact, he as good as told me 
 "For the three thousand pounds," repeated Bones soberly.  He put in his  monocle and glared at her.  "For the three thousand pounds," he  repeated.    She stood waiting, and Bones stood waiting, he in some embarrassment as  to the method by which the interview might be terminated and his  secretary dismissed without any wound to her feelings.    "Don't you think to-morrow would do for the cheque?" she asked.    "Certainly, certainly," said Bones.  "Why not?  To-morrow's Friday,  ain't it?"    She inclined her head and walked out of the room, and Bones cleared his  throat once more.    "Bones----"    The young man turned to meet Hamilton's accusing eye.    "Bones," said Hamilton gently, "who is the lady?"    "Who is the lady?" repeated Bones, with a cough.  "The lady is my  secretary, dear old inquisitor."    "So I gather," said Hamilton.    "She is my secretary," repeated Bones.  "An extremely sensible young  woman, extremely sensible."    "Don't be silly," said Hamilton.  "Plenty of people are sensible.  When  you talk about sensible young women, you mean plain young women."    "That's true," said Bones; "I never thought of that.  What a naughty  old mind you have, Ham."    He seemed inclined to change the subject.    "And now, dear old son," said Bones, with a brisk return to his  what-can-I-do-for-you air, "to business!  You've come, dear old thing,  to consult me."    "You're surprisingly right," said Hamilton.    "Well," said Bones, trying three drawers of his desk before he could  find one that opened, "have a cigar, and let us talk."    Hamilton took the proffered weed and eyed it suspiciously.    "Is this one that was given to you, or one that you bought?" he  demanded.    "That, my jolly old officer," said Bones, "is part of a job lot that I  bought pretty cheap.  I've got a rare nose for a bargain----"    "Have you a rare nose for a cigar, that's the point?" asked Hamilton,  as he cut off the end and lit it gingerly. 
had not earned.    "Dear old thing, dear old thing," said Bones testily, "remember dear  old Dicky Orum--preserve the decencies, dear old Ham.  You're not in  the Wild West now, my cheery boy."    "Bones," shouted Hamilton, "you're my mascot!  Do you know what has  happened?"    "Lower your voice, lower your voice, dear old friend," protested Bones.  "My typewriter mustn't think I am quarrelling."    "He came last night," said Hamilton, "just as I was going to bed, and  knocked me up."  He was almost incoherent in his joy.  "He offered me  three thousand five hundred pounds for my shares, and I took it like a  shot."    Bones gaped at him.    "Offered you three thousand five hundred?" he gasped.  "Good heavens!  You don't mean to say----"    Consider the tragedy of that moment.  Here was Bones, full of great  schemes for establishing a car upon the world's markets, who had in his  head planned extensive works, who saw in his mind's eye vistas of long,  white-covered festive boards, and heard the roar of cheering which  greeted him when he rose to propose continued prosperity to the firm.  Consider also that his cheque was on the table before him, already made  out and signed.  He was at that moment awaiting the arrival of Mr.  Soames.    And then to this picture, tangible or fanciful, add Mr. Charles O.  Soames himself, ushered through the door of the outer office and  standing as though stricken to stone at the sight of Bones and Hamilton  in consultation.    "Good morning," said Bones.    Mr. Soames uttered a strangled cry and strode to the centre of the  room, his face working.    "So it was a ramp, was it?" he said.  "A swindle, eh?  You put this up  to get your pal out of the cart?"    "My dear old----" began Bones in a shocked voice.    "I see how it was done.  Well, you've had me for three thousand five  hundred, and your pal's lucky.  That's all I've got to say.  It is the 
   He glared from one face to the other with a ferocity of expression  which did no more than indicate the strength of his conviction.    "Why not keep the money in the family, dear old Ham?  That's what I ask  you.  Answer me that."  He leaned back in his chair, thrust his hands  in his trousers pockets, and blandly surveyed his discomfited audience.    "But you've got to have actors, my dear chap," said Hamilton.    "Naturally and necessarily," replied Bones, nodding with very large  nods.  "And we have them.  Who is Jasper Brown, the villain who tries  to rob the poor girl of her legacy and casts the vilest aspersions upon  her jolly old name?"    "Who is?" asked the innocent Hamilton.    "You are," said Bones.    Hamilton gasped.    "Who is Frank Fearnot, the young and handsome soldier--well, not  necessarily handsome, but pretty good-looking--who rescues the girl  from her sad predicament?"    "Well, that can't be me, anyway," said Hamilton.    "It is not," said Bones.  "It is me!  Who is the gorgeous but sad old  innocent one who's chased by you, Ham, till the poor little soul  doesn't know which way to turn, until this jolly young officer steps  brightly on the scene, whistling a merry tune, and, throwing his arms  about her, saves her, dear old thing, from her fate--or, really, from a  perfectly awful rotten time."    "Who is she?" asked Hamilton softly.    Bones blinked and turned to the girl slowly.    "My dear old miss," he said, "what do you think?"    "What do I think?" asked the startled girl.  "What do I think about  what?"    "There's a part," said Bones--"there's one of the grandest parts that  was ever written since Shakespeare shut his little copybook."    "You're not suggesting that I should play it?" she asked, open-mouthed.    "Made for you, dear old typewriter, positively made for you, that  part," murmured Bones.    "Of course I shall do nothing so silly," said the girl, with a laugh.  "Oh, Mr. Tibbetts, you really didn't think that I'd do such a----" 
public were not admitted, perhaps, more than four times a year.    Hamilton had watched the proceedings with interest and suspicion.  When  Bones was mysterious he was very mysterious; and he returned that night  in such a condition of mystery that none but a thought-reading  detective could have unravelled him.    "You seem infernally pleased with yourself, Bones," said Hamilton.  "What lamentable error have you fallen into?"    "Dear old Ham," said Bones, with the helpless little laugh which  characterised the very condition of mind which Hamilton had described,  "dear old pryer, wait till to-morrow.  Dear old thing, I wouldn't spoil  it.  Read your jolly old newspaper, dear old inquirer."    "Have you been to the police court?" asked Hamilton.    "Police court?  Police court?" said Bones testily.  "Good Heavens, lad!  Why this jolly old vulgarity?  No, dear boy, live and learn, dear old  thing!"    Hamilton undoubtedly lived until the next morning, and learnt.  He saw  the headlines the second he opened his newspaper.      GREAT DEAL IN JUTE.  PROMINENT CITY MAN BUYS GOVERNMENT SUPPLY OF  JUTE FOR A MILLION.      Hamilton was on his way to the office, and fell back in the corner of  the railway carriage with a suppressed moan.  He almost ran to the  office, to find Bones stalking up and down the room, dictating an  interview to a reporter.    "One minute, one minute, dear old Ham," said.  Bones warningly.  And  then, turning to the industrious journalist, he went on where Hamilton  had evidently interrupted him.  "You can say that I've spent a great  deal of my life in fearfully dangerous conditions," he said.  "You  needn't say where, dear old reporter, just say 'fearfully dangerous  conditions.'"    "What about jute?" asked the young man.    "Jute," said Bones with relish, "or, as we call it, _Corcharis  capsilaris_, is the famous jute tree.  I have always been interested in  jute and all that sort of thing----  But you know what to say better 
   They discussed Bones in terms equally unflattering.  They likened Bones  to all representatives of the animal world whose characteristics are  extreme foolishness, but at last they came into a saner, calmer frame  of mind.    Miss Clara Stegg seated herself on the frowsy sofa--indispensable to a  Pimlico furnished flat--and, with her elbow on one palm and her chin on  another, reviewed the situation.  She was the brains of a little  combination which had done so much to distress and annoy susceptible  financiers in the City of London.  (The record of the Stegg sisters may  be read by the curious, or, at any rate, by as many of the curious as  have the _entrée_ to the Record Department of Scotland Yard.)    The Steggs specialised in finance, and operated exclusively in high  financial circles.  There was not a fluctuation of the market which  Miss Clara Stegg did not note; and when Rubber soared sky-high, or  Steel Preferred sagged listlessly, she knew just who was going to be  affected, and just how approachable they were.    During the War the Stegg sisters had opened a new department, so to  speak, dealing with Government contracts, and the things which they  knew about the incomes of Government contractors the average surveyor  of taxes would have given money to learn.    "It was my mistake, Bertha," she said at last, "though in a sense it  wasn't.  I tried him simply, because he's simple.  If you work  something complicated on a fellow like that, you're pretty certain to  get him guessing."    She went out of the room, and presently returned with four ordinary  exercise-books, one of which she opened at a place where a page was  covered with fine writing, and that facing was concealed by a sheet of  letter-paper which had been pasted on to it.  The letter-paper bore the  embossed heading of Schemes Limited, the epistle had reference to a  request for an autograph which Bones had most graciously granted.    The elder woman looked at the signature, biting her nether lip.    "It is almost too late now.  What is the time?" she asked. 
Mr. de Vinne was on his mind rather than on his conscience, for Mr. de  Vinne was very angry with Bones, who, as he had said, had "niped" in  and had cost Mr. de Vinne £17,500.    "It is not a nice letter," suggested the girl.    "Let me see, dear young head-turner," said Bones firmly.    The letter called him "Sir," and went on to speak of the writer's years  of experience as a merchant of the City of London, in all of which,  said the writer, he had never heard of conduct approaching in infamy  that of Augustus Tibbetts, Esquire.      "It has been brought to my recollection" (wrote the infuriated Mr. de  Vinne) "that on the day you made your purchase of Browns, I dined at  the Kingsway Restaurant, and that you occupied a table immediately  behind me.  I can only suppose that you overheard a _perfectly  confidential_" (heavily underscored) "conversation between myself and a  fellow-director, and utilised the information thus _disgracefully_  acquired."      "Never talk at meals, dear old typewriter," murmured Bones.  "Awfully  bad for your jolly young tum--for your indigestion, dear young  keytapper."    The letter went on to express the writer's intention of taking  vengeance for the "dishonest squeeze" of which he had been the victim.    Bones looked at his secretary anxiously.  The censure of Mr. de Vinne  affected him not at all.  The possible disapproval of this lady filled  him with dire apprehension.    "It's not a nice letter," said the girl.  "Do you want me to answer it?"    "Do I want you to answer it?" repeated Bones, taking courage.  "Of  course I want you to answer it, my dear old paper-stainer and  decorator.  Take these words."    He paced the room with a terrible frown.    "Dear old thing," he began.    "Do you want me to say 'Dear old thing'?" asked the girl.    "No, perhaps not, perhaps not," said Bones.  "Start it like this: 'My  dear peevish one----"    The girl hesitated and then wrote down: "Dear Sir."  
 "Yes, yes," said Bones.  "Go on."    "In fact, I wonder that Mr. de Vinne bothered about him."    "De Vinne?" said Bones sitting up.  "Harold de Vinne, the moneyed one?"    "That's him.  He's one of our oldest customers," said Hilton.    "Indeed," said Bones, this time without any enthusiasm at all.    "You see, a man did him in the eye," explained Mr. Hilton, "swindled  him, and all that sort of thing.  Well, I think we have got enough to  make this chap look silly."    "Oh, yes," said Bones politely.  "What have you got?"    "Well, it appears," said Hilton, "that this chap is madly in love with  his typist."    "Which chap?" said Bones.    "The fellow who did Mr. de Vinne in the eye," replied the patient Mr.  Hilton.  "He used to be an officer on the West Coast of Africa, and was  known as Bones.  His real name is Tibbetts."    "Oh yes," said Bones.    "Well, we've found out all about him," continued Hilton.  "He's got a  flat in Jermyn Street, and this girl of his, this typist girl, dines  with him.  She's not a bad-looking girl, mind you."    Bones rose to his feet, and there was in his face a terrible look.    "Hilton," he said, "do you mean that you have been shadowing a  perfectly innocent man and a charming, lovely old typewriter, that  couldn't say 'Goo' to a boose?"    Bones was pardonably agitated.    "Do you mean to tell me that this office descends to this low practice  of prying into the private lives of virtuous gentlemen and typewriters?  Shame upon you, Hilton!"  His voice shook.  "Give me that report!"  He  thrust the report into the fire.  "Now call up Mr. Borker, and tell him  I want to see him on business, and don't disturb me, because I am  writing a letter."    He pulled a sheet of paper from his stationery rack and wrote  furiously.  He hardly stopped to think, he scarcely stopped to spell. 
course a jolly old poet like me, or like any other old fellow, like  Shakespeare, if you like--to go from the sublime to the ridiculous--has  fits of poetising that mean absolutely nothing.  It doesn't follow that  if a poet like Browning or me writes fearfully enthusiastically and all  that sort of thing about a person...  No disrespect, you understand,  dear old miss."    "Quite," she said, and wondered.    "I take a subject for a verse," said Bones airily, waving his hand  toward Throgmorton Street.  "A 'bus, a fuss, a tram, a lamb, a hat, a  cat, a sunset, a little flower growing on the river's brim, and all  that sort of thing--any old subject, dear old miss, that strikes me in  the eye--you understand?"    "Of course I understand," she said readily.  "A poet's field is  universal, and I quite understand that if he writes nice things about  his friends he doesn't mean it."    "Oh, but doesn't he?" said Bones truculently.  "Oh, doesn't he, indeed?  That just shows what a fat lot you know about it, jolly old Miss  Marguerite.  When I write a poem about a girl----"    "Oh, I see, they're about girls," said she a little coldly.    "About _a_ girl," said Bones, this time so pointedly that his confusion  was transferred immediately to her.    "Anyway, they don't mean anything," she said bravely.    "My dear young miss"--Bones rose, and his voice trembled as he laid his  hand on the typewriter where hers had been a second before--"my dear  old miss," he said, jingling with the letters "a" and "e" as though he  had originally put out his hand to touch the keyboard, and was in no  way surprised and distressed that the little hand which had covered  them had been so hastily withdrawn, "I can only tell you----"    "There is your telephone bell," she said hurriedly.  "Shall I answer  it?"  And before Bones could reply she had disappeared.    He went back to his flat that night with his mind made up.  He would  show her those beautiful verses.  He had come to this conclusion many 
   "It's a jolly good 'bus," he said.  "I thought of running down to  Brighton on Sunday."    Hamilton got up and walked slowly across the room with his hands in his  pockets.    "You're thinking of running down to Brighton, are you?" he said.  "Is  it one of those kind of cars where you have to do your own running?"    Bones, with a good-natured smile, also rose from his desk and walked to  the window.    "My car," he said, and waved his hand to the street.    By craning his neck, Hamilton was able to get a view of the patch of  roadway immediately in front of the main entrance to the building.  And  undoubtedly there was a car in waiting--a long, resplendent machine  that glittered in the morning sunlight.    "What's the pink cushion on the seat?" asked Hamilton.    "That's not a pink cushion, dear old myoptic," said Bones calmly;  "that's my chauffeur--Ali ben Ahmed."    "Good lor!" said the impressed Hamilton.  "You've a nerve to drive into  the City with a sky-blue Kroo boy."    Bones shrugged his shoulders.    "We attracted a certain amount of attention," he admitted, not without  satisfaction.    "Naturally," said Hamilton, going back to his desk.  "People thought  you were advertising Pill Pellets for Pale Poultry.  When did you buy  this infernal machine?"    Bones, at his desk, crossed his legs and put his fingers together.    "Negotiations, dear old Ham, have been in progress for a month," he  recited.  "I have been taking lessons on the quiet, and to-day--proof!"  He took out his pocket-book and threw a paper with a lordly air towards  his partner.  It fell half-way on the floor.    "Don't trouble to get up," said Hamilton.  "It's your motor licence.  You needn't be able to drive a car to get that."    And then Bones dropped his attitude of insouciance and became a  vociferous advertisement for the six-cylinder Carter-Crispley ("the big  car that's made like a clock").  He became double pages with  illustrations and handbooks and electric signs.  He spoke of Carter and 
"My old typewriter, frivolous one," said Bones truculently.  "Any  objection?"    "Of course not," said Hamilton calmly.  "Miss Whitland is a most  charming girl, and Vera will be delighted to meet her."    Bones choked his gratitude and wrung the other's hand for fully two  minutes.    He spent the rest of the week in displaying to Hamilton the frank  ambitions of his mind toward Miss Marguerite Whitland.  Whenever he had  nothing to do--which seemed most of the day--he strolled across to  Hamilton's desk and discoursed upon the proper respect which all  right-thinking young officers have for old typewriters.  By the end of  the week Hamilton had the confused impression that the very pretty girl  who ministered to the literary needs of his partner, combined the  qualities of a maiden aunt with the virtues of a grandmother, and that  Bones experienced no other emotion than one of reverential wonder,  tinctured with complete indifference.    On the sixty-fourth lecture Hamilton struck.    "Of course, dear old thing," Bones was saying, "to a jolly old brigand  like you, who dashes madly down from his mountain lair and takes the  first engaging young person who meets his eye----"    Hamilton protested vigorously, but Bones silenced him with a lordly  gesture.    "I say, to a jolly old rascal like you it may seem--what is the word?"    "'Inexplicable,' I suppose, is the word you are after," said Hamilton.    "That's the fellow; you took it out of my mouth," said Bones.  "It  sounds inexplicable that I can be interested in a platonic, fatherly  kind of way in the future of a lovely old typewriter."    "It's not inexplicable at all," said Hamilton bluntly.  "You're in love  with the girl."    "Good gracious Heavens!" gasped Bones, horrified.  "Ham, my dear old  boy.  Dicky Orum, Dicky Orum, old thing!"    Sunday morning brought together four solemn people, two of whom were  men, who felt extremely awkward and showed it, and two of whom behaved  as though they had known one another all their lives.    Bones, who stood alternately on his various legs, was frankly astounded 
 which did not attract the tourist in days of peace.    These were the facts about the Lynhaven line, not as they were set  forth by Mr. Pyeburt--who took a much more optimistic view of the  possibilities of the railway than did its detractors--but as they  really were.    "It's a fine line, beautifully laid and ballasted," said Mr. Pyeburt,  shaking his head with melancholy admiration.  "All that it wants behind  it is a mind.  At present it's neglected; the freights and passenger  fares are too high, the rolling-stock wants replacing, but the  locomotive stock is in most excellent condition."    "Does he want to sell it?" asked the interested Bones, and Mr. Pyeburt  pursed his lips.    "It is extremely doubtful," he said carefully, "but I think he might be  approached.  If he does want to sell it, and you can take it off his  hands----"    He raised his own eyebrows with a significant gesture, which expressed  in some subtle way that Bones's future was assured.    Bones said he would think the matter over, and he did--aloud, in the  presence of Hamilton.    "It's a queer proposition," said Hamilton.  "Of course, derelict  railways can be made to pay."    "I should be general manager," said Bones more thoughtfully still.  "My  name would be printed on all the posters, of course.  And isn't there a  free pass over all the railways for railway managers?"    "I believe there is something of the sort," said Hamilton, "but, on the  whole, I think it would be cheaper to pay your fare than to buy a  railway to get that privilege."    "There is one locomotive," mused Bones.  "It is called 'Mary Louisa.'  Pyeburt told me about it just as I was going away.  Of course, one  would get a bit of a name and all that sort of thing."    He scratched his chin and walked thoughtfully into the office of Miss  Marguerite Whitland.    She swung round in her chair and reached for her notebook, but Bones  was not in a dictatorial mood.   
bound up in their credulity and faith in his integrity.  Some of them  discovered that later, but the majority drifted out of his circle  poorer without being wiser, for Mr. Hyane played a wonderful game of  piquet, and seemed to be no more than abnormally lucky.    His mother had been a Miss Whitland, his father was the notorious  Colonel Hyane, who boasted that his library was papered with High Court  writs, and who had had the distinction of being escorted from Monte  Carlo by the police of the Principality.    Mr. Jackson Hyane was a student of men and affairs.  Very little  escaped his keen observation, and he had a trick of pigeon-holing  possibilities of profit, and forgetting them until the moment seemed  ripe for their exploitation.  He was tall and handsome, with a smile  which was worth at least five thousand pounds a year to him, for it  advertised his boyish innocence and enthusiasm--he who had never been  either a boy or enthusiastic.    One grey October day he put away his pass-book into a drawer and locked  it, and took from a mental pigeon-hole the materials of an immature  scheme.  He dressed himself soberly and well, strolled down into  Piccadilly, and calling a cab, drove to the block of City buildings  which housed the flourishing business of Tibbetts and Hamilton, Limited.    The preliminaries to this invasion had been very carefully settled.  He  had met Miss Marguerite Whitland by "accident" a week before, had  called at her lodgings with an old photograph of her father, which he  had providentially discovered, and had secured from her a somewhat  reluctant acceptance of an invitation to lunch.    Bones looked up from his desk as the debonair young man strolled in.    "You don't know me, Mr. Tibbetts," said Jackson Hyane, flashing his  famous smile.  "My name is Hyane."    It was his first meeting with Bones, but by no means the first time  that Jackson had seen him.    "My dear old Hyane, sit down," said Bones cheerfully.  "What can we do  for you?"    Mr. Hyane laughed.    
 from all its aspects and every angle, and was no nearer to peace of  mind when, at half-past ten to the second, Mr. Jackson Hyane returned.    But Bones had formed one definite conclusion, and had settled upon the  action he intended taking.  Mr. Hyane, entering the study, saw the  cheque book on the desk, and was cheered.  Bones had to clear his voice  several times before he could articulate.    "Mr. Hyane," he said huskily, "I have been thinking matters out.  I am  a great admirer of yours--of your--of yours--a tremendous admirer of  yours, Mr. Hyane.  Anything that made her happy, old Mr. Hyane, would  make me happy.  You see?"    "I see," said Mr. Hyane, and he had the satisfaction of knowing that  he, a student of men, had not misread his victim.    "Fourteen thousand pounds," said Bones, turning abruptly to the desk  and seizing his pen.  "Make it payable to you?"    "You're too kind," murmured Hyane.  "Make it an open cheque, Mr.  Tibbetts--I have to pay the agents in cash.  These Indian merchants are  so suspicious."    Bones wrote the cheque rapidly, marked it "Pay Cash," and initialled  the corrections, then tore the slip from the book and handed it to the  other.    "Of course, Mr. Tibbetts," said Hyane reverentially, "I regard half  this as a loan to me and half as a loan to my dear wife.  We shall  never forget your kindness."    "Rot!" said Bones.  "Nonsense!  I hope you'll be happy, and will you  tell her----"  He swallowed something.    There was a faint tinkle of a bell in the hall, and Ali, his servant,  poked an ebony face round the corner of the door.    "Sir," he said, "the telephonic apparatus demands conversation."    Bones was glad of the interruption, and, with a muttered apology to his  gratified guest, he strode out into the hall.  Ali had accustomed  himself to answering the telephone, but this time he had not understood  the preliminary inquiry from exchange.    "Hello!" said Bones into the transmitter. 
City that the Company is to be reconstructed, and that a considerable  amount of new capital has been found, with the object of expanding its  existing business."    Bones read the paragraph many times, and at the conclusion of each  reading returned to his reverie.  Presently he rose and strolled into  the office of his secretary, and the girl looked up with a smile as  Bones seated himself on the edge of her table.    "Young miss," he said soberly, "do you ever hear anybody talking about  me in this jolly old City?"    "Why, yes," she said in surprise.    "Fearfully complimentarily, dear old miss?" asked Bones carelessly, and  the girl's colour deepened.    "I don't think it matters what people say about one, do you?"    "It doesn't matter to me," said Bones, "so long as one lovely old  typewriter has a good word for poor old Bones."  He laid his hand upon  hers, and she suffered it to remain there without protest.  "They think  I'm a silly old ass, don't they?"    "Oh, no," she said quickly, "they don't think that.  They say you're  rather unconventional."    "Same thing," said Bones.  "Anybody who's unconventional in business is  a silly old ass."    He squeezed the hand under his, and again she did not protest or  withdraw it from his somewhat clammy grip.    "Dear old darling----" began Bones, but she stopped him with a warning  finger.    "Dear old typewriter," said Bones, unabashed, but obedient, "suppose  something happened to the clever old Johnny who presides over this  office--the brains of the department, if I may be allowed to say so?"    "Captain Hamilton?" said the girl in surprise.    "No, me," said Bones, annoyed.  "Gracious Heavens, dear old key-tapper,  didn't I say me?"    "Something happen to you?" she said in alarm.  "Why, what could happen  to you?"    "Suppose I went broke?" said Bones, with the comfortable air of one who  was very unlikely to go broke.  "Suppose I had terrific and tremendous  and cataclysmic and what's-the-other-word losses?" 
 offered to buy his shares.  But Bones had said he would not under any  circumstances----    "Buy my shares?" said de Vinne quickly.    "Well, he didn't exactly say that," said Fred.  "But he gave me to  understand that he'd rather buy the shares from me than from anybody  else, and I thought it was such an excellent idea, and I could fix it  up with you on the telephone, so I sold him----"    "How many?" wailed de Vinne.    "A hundred and fifty thousand," said Mr. Fred, and the two men stared  at one another.    De Vinne licked his dry lips.    "It comes to this," he said.  "Between us we've sold him three hundred  and thirty thousand shares.  There are only two hundred and fifty  thousand shares issued, so we've got to deliver eighty thousand shares  that are non-existent or be posted as defaulters."    Another long pause, and then both men said simultaneously, as though  the thought had struck them for the first time:    "Why, the fellow's a rogue!"    The next morning they called upon Bones, and they were with him for  half an hour; and when they went, they left behind them, not only the  cheques that Bones had given them, but another cheque for a most  substantial amount as consideration.    That night Bones gave a wonderful dinner-party at the most expensive  hotel in London.  Sanders was there, and Patricia Sanders, and  Hamilton, and a certain Vera, whom the bold Bones called by her  Christian name, but the prettiest of the girls was she who sat on his  right and listened to the delivery of Bones's great speech in fear and  trembling.    "The toast of the evening, dear old friends," said Bones, "is Cupidity  and Cupid.  Coupled with the names of the Honourable de Vinne and my  young and lovely typewriter--my friend and companion in storm and  stress, the only jolly old lady, if I may be allowed to say so, that  has stirred my young heart"--he caught Patricia Sanders's accusing eye,  coughed, and added--"in Europe!"    
