subtitle Ten Years Later. These two titles are also given to different

volumes: The Vicomte de Bragelonne can refer to the whole book, or the

first volume of the three or four-volume editions. Ten Years Later

can, similarly, refer to the whole book, or the second volume of the

four-volume edition. To add to the confusion, in the case of our etexts,

it refers to the first 104 chapters of the whole book, covering material

in the first and second etexts in the new series. Here is a guide to the

series which may prove helpful:



The Three Musketeers: Etext 1257--First book of the D’Artagnan Romances.

Covers the years 1625-1628.



Twenty Years After: Etext 1259--Second book of the D’Artagnan Romances.

Covers the years 1648-1649. [Third in the order that we published, but

second in time sequence!!!]



Ten Years Later: Etext 1258--First 104 chapters of the third book of the

D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years 1660-1661.



The Vicomte de Bragelonne: Etext 2609 (first in the new series)--First

75 chapters of the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the

year 1660.



Ten Years Later: Etext 2681 (our new etext)--Chapters 76-140 of that

third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years 1660-1661. [In

this particular editing of it]



Louise de la Valliere: forthcoming (our next etext)--Chapters 141-208 of

the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the year 1661.



The Man in the Iron Mask: forthcoming (following)--Chapters 209-269 of

the third book of the D’Artagnan Romances. Covers the years 1661-1673.



If we’ve calculated correctly, that fourth text SHOULD correspond to

the modern editions of The Man in the Iron Mask, which is still

widely circulated, and comprises about the last 1/4 of The Vicomte de

Bragelonne.



Here is a list of the other Dumas Etexts we have published so far:



Sep 1999 La Tulipe Noire, by Alexandre

Dumas[Pere#6/French][tlpnrxxx.xxx]1910 This is an abridged edition in

French, also see our full length English Etext Jul 1997 The Black Tulip,

by Alexandre Dumas[Pere][Dumas#1][tbtlpxxx.xxx] 965 Jan 1998 The Count

of Monte Cristo by Alexandre Dumas[Pere][crstoxxx.xxx]1184





Many thanks to Dr. David Coward, whose editions of the D’Artagnan




“I may then hope to go to Paris?”



“Depend on it.”



“Oh! Monsieur Malicorne, what joy!” cried Louise, clapping her hands,

and bounding with pleasure.



“Little dissembler!” said Montalais, “try again to make me believe you

are not in love with Raoul.”



Louise blushed like a rose in June, but instead of replying, she ran and

embraced her mother. “Madame,” said she, “do you know that M. Malicorne

is going to have me appointed maid of honor?”



“M. Malicorne is a prince in disguise,” replied the old lady, “he is

all-powerful, seemingly.”



“Should you also like to be a maid of honor?” asked Malicorne of Madame

de Saint-Remy. “Whilst I am about it, I might as well get everybody

appointed.”



And upon that he went away, leaving the poor lady quite disconcerted.



“Humph!” murmured Malicorne as he descended the stairs,--“Humph! there

goes another note of a thousand livres! but I must get through as well

as I can; my friend Manicamp does nothing for nothing.”







Chapter IV. Malicorne and Manicamp.



The introduction of these two new personages into this history and that

mysterious affinity of names and sentiments, merit some attention on the

part of both historian and reader. We will then enter into some details

concerning Messieurs Malicorne and Manicamp. Malicorne, we know, had

made the journey to Orleans in search of the _brevet_ destined for

Mademoiselle de Montalais, the arrival of which had produced such a

strong feeling at the castle of Blois. At that moment, M. de Manicamp

was at Orleans. A singular person was this M. de Manicamp; a very

intelligent young fellow, always poor, always needy, although he dipped

his hand freely into the purse of M. le Comte de Guiche, one of the best

furnished purses of the period. M. le Comte de Guiche had had, as

the companion of his boyhood, this De Manicamp, a poor gentleman,

vassal-born, of the house of Gramont. M. de Manicamp, with his tact

and talent had created himself a revenue in the opulent family of the

celebrated marechal. From his infancy he had, with calculation beyond

contemplation, returned it with apparent unwillingness, saying, “Most

decidedly, my lord, I should rather prefer to look ten times at your

highness, than to look at Madame once again.” It seemed as if the

chevalier had detected some mystery in these words, which were

incomprehensible to the prince, for he exclaimed: “Very well, get

married yourself.” Monsieur continued painting himself, and when he

had finished, looked at the portrait again once more, turned to admire

himself in the glass, and smiled, and no doubt was satisfied with the

comparison. “You are very kind to have come,” he said to Guiche, “I

feared you would leave without bidding me adieu.”



“Your highness knows me too well to believe me capable of so great a

disrespect.”



“Besides, I suppose you have something to ask from me before leaving

Paris?”



“Your highness has indeed guessed correctly, for I have a request to

make.”



“Very good, what is it?”



The Chevalier de Lorraine immediately displayed the greatest attention,

for he regarded every favor conferred upon another as a robbery

committed against himself. And, as Guiche hesitated, the prince said:

“If it be money, nothing could be more fortunate, for I am in funds; the

superintendent of the finances has sent me 500,000 pistoles.”



“I thank your highness; but is not an affair of money.”



“What is it, then? Tell me.”



“The appointment of a maid of honor.”



“Oh! oh! Guiche, what a protector you have become of young ladies,” said

the prince, “you never speak of any one else now.”



The Chevalier de Lorraine smiled, for he knew very well that nothing

displeased the prince more than to show any interest in ladies. “My

lord,” said the comte, “it is not I who am directly interested in the

lady of whom I have just spoken; I am acting on behalf of one of my

friends.”



“Ah! that is different; what is the name of the young lady in whom your

friend is so interested?”



“Mlle. de la Baume le Blanc de la Valliere; she is already maid of honor


streets of the town.”



“You observe, however, that he has changed his tactics.”



“Yes, certainly; but this is the very thing that amazes me so much. You

spoke to him in a low tone of voice, what did you say to him? You think

he loves her; you admit that such a passion does not give way readily.

He does not love her, then!” De Guiche pronounced the latter with so

marked an expression that Raoul raised his head. The noble character of

the young man’s countenance expressed a displeasure which could easily

be read.



“What I said to him, count,” replied Raoul, “I will repeat to you.

Listen to me. I said, ‘You are regarding with wistful feelings, and most

injurious desire, the sister of your prince,--her to whom you are

not affianced, who is not, who can never be anything to you; you are

outraging those who, like ourselves, have come to seek a young lady to

escort her to her husband.’”



“You spoke to him in that manner?” asked Guiche, coloring.



“In those very terms; I even added more. ‘How would you regard us,’

I said, ‘if you were to perceive among us a man mad enough, disloyal

enough, to entertain other than sentiments of the most perfect respect

for a princess who is the destined wife of our master?’”



These words were so applicable to De Guiche that he turned pale, and,

overcome by a sudden agitation, was barely able to stretch out one hand

mechanically towards Raoul, as he covered his eyes and face with the

other.



“But,” continued Raoul, not interrupted by this movement of his friend,

“Heaven be praised, the French, who are pronounced to be thoughtless

and indiscreet, reckless, even, are capable of bringing a calm and sound

judgment to bear on matters of such high importance. I added even

more, for I said, ‘Learn, my lord, that we gentlemen of France devote

ourselves to our sovereigns by sacrificing them our affections, as well

as our fortunes and our lives; and whenever it may chance to happen that

the tempter suggests one of those vile thoughts that set the heart on

Valliere should be similarly cared for.”



“But, M. Raoul,” said Louise, innocently, “there is no difference in the

matter, and I do not see why I should not tell it you myself; it was M.

Malicorne who obtained it for me.”



Raoul remained for a moment almost stupefied, asking himself if they

were trifling with him; he then turned round to interrogate Malicorne,

but he had been hurried away by Montalais, and was already at some

distance from them. Mademoiselle de la Valliere attempted to follow her

friend, but Raoul, with gentle authority, detained her.



“Louise, one word, I beg.”



“But, M. Raoul,” said Louise, blushing, “we are alone. Every one has

left. They will become anxious, and will be looking for us.”



“Fear nothing,” said the young man, smiling, “we are neither of us of

sufficient importance for our absence to be remarked.”



“But I have my duty to perform, M. Raoul.”



“Do not be alarmed, I am acquainted with these usages of the court; you

will not be on duty until to-morrow; a few minutes are at your disposal,

which will enable you to give me the information I am about to have the

honor to ask you for.”



“How serious you are, M. Raoul!” said Louise.



“Because the circumstances are serious. Are you listening?”



“I am listening; I would only repeat, monsieur, that we are quite

alone.”



“You are right,” said Raoul, and, offering her his hand, he led the

young girl into the gallery adjoining the reception-room, the windows

of which looked out upon the courtyard. Every one hurried towards the

middle window, which had a balcony outside, from which all the details

of the slow and formal preparations for departure could be seen. Raoul

opened one of the side windows, and then, being alone with Louise, said

to her: “You know, Louise, that from my childhood I have regarded you

as my sister, as one who has been the confidante of all my troubles, to

whom I have entrusted all my hopes.”



“Yes, M. Raoul,” she answered softly; “yes, M. Raoul, I know that.”


against men of upright character. Raoul is suffering; he is in great

distress of mind; his disposition, naturally light and cheerful, has

become gloomy and melancholy. I do not wish to deprive your majesty of

the services he may be able to render.”



“I understand you,” said the king; “and what is more, I understand your

heart, too, comte.”



“There is no occasion, therefore,” replied the comte, “to tell your

majesty that my object is to make these children, or rather Raoul,

happy.”



“And I, too, as much as yourself, comte, wish to secure M. de

Bragelonne’s happiness.”



“I only await your majesty’s signature. Raoul will have the honor of

presenting himself before your majesty to receive your consent.”



“You are mistaken, comte,” said the king, firmly; “I have just said that

I desire to secure M. de Bragelonne’s happiness, and from the present

moment, therefore, I oppose his marriage.”



“But, sire,” exclaimed Athos, “your majesty has promised!”



“Not so, comte, I did not promise you, for it is opposed to my own

views.”



“I appreciate your majesty’s considerate and generous intentions on my

behalf; but I take the liberty of recalling to you that I undertook to

approach you as an ambassador.”



“An ambassador, comte, frequently asks, but does not always obtain what

he asks.”



“But, sire, it will be such a blow for De Bragelonne.”



“My hand shall deal the blow; I will speak to the vicomte.”



“Love, sire, is overwhelming in its might.”



“Love can be resisted, comte. I myself can assure you of that.”



“When one has the soul of a king,--your own, for instance, sire.”



“Do not make yourself uneasy on the subject. I have certain views for

De Bragelonne. I do not say that he shall not marry Mademoiselle de la

Valliere, but I do not wish him to marry so young; I do not wish him to

marry her until she has acquired a fortune; and he, on his side, no less

deserves favor, such as I wish to confer upon him. In a word, comte, I

“The deuce! so that the one hundred and fifty thousand francs have

passed into their hands.”



“Precisely so.”



“And beyond that?”



“A sum of one hundred and fifty thousand francs, or fifteen thousand

pistoles, whichever you please, in three payments.”



“Exorbitant.”



“Yes, but that is not all.”



“What besides?”



“In default of the fulfillment by me of any one of those conditions,

those gentlemen enter upon their functions again. The king has been

induced to sign that.”



“It is monstrous, incredible!”



“Such is the fact, however.”



“I do indeed pity you, Baisemeaux. But why, in the name of fortune, did

M. Mazarin grant you this pretended favor? It would have been far better

to have refused you altogether.”



“Certainly, but he was strongly persuaded to do so by my protector.”



“Who is he?”



“One of your own friends, indeed; M. d’Herblay.”



“M. d’Herblay! Aramis!”



“Just so; he has been very kind towards me.”



“Kind! to make you enter into such a bargain!”



“Listen! I wished to leave the cardinal’s service. M. d’Herblay spoke on

my behalf to Louviere and Tremblay--they objected; I wished to have the

appointment very much, for I knew what it could be made to produce;

in my distress I confided in M. d’Herblay, and he offered to become my

surety for the different payments.”



“You astound me! Aramis became your surety?”



“Like a man of honor; he procured the signature; Tremblay and Louviere

resigned their appointments; I have paid every year twenty-five thousand

francs to these two gentlemen; on the thirty-first of May, every year,

M. d’Herblay himself comes to the Bastile, and brings me five thousand

pistoles to distribute between my crocodiles.”



“You owe Aramis one hundred and fifty thousand francs, then?”



“That is the very thing which is the cause of my despair, for I only owe

him one hundred thousand.”



“I don’t quite understand you.”



“He came and settled with the vampires only two years. To-day, however,


another taste of this Volnay.”



“Not a taste merely, a full glass; fill yours too.”



“Nay, nay! You are a musketeer still, to the very tips of your fingers,

while I have become a bishop. A taste for me; a glass for yourself.”



“As you please.” And Aramis and the governor nodded to each other, as

they drank their wine. “But,” said Aramis, looking with fixed attention

at the ruby-colored wine he had raised to the level of his eyes, as if

he wished to enjoy it with all his senses at the same moment, “but

what you might call a resemblance, another would not, perhaps, take any

notice of.”



“Most certainly he would, though, if it were any one who knew the person

he resembles.”



“I really think, dear M. Baisemeaux, that it can be nothing more than a

resemblance of your own creation.”



“Upon my honor, it is not so.”



“Stay,” continued Aramis. “I have seen many persons very like the one

we are speaking of; but, out of respect, no one ever said anything about

it.”



“Very likely; because there is resemblance and resemblance. This is a

striking one, and, if you were to see him, you would admit it to be so.”



“If I were to see him, indeed,” said Aramis, in an indifferent tone;

“but in all probability I never shall.”



“Why not?”



“Because if I were even to put my foot inside one of those horrible

dungeons, I should fancy I was buried there forever.”



“No, no; the cells are very good places to live in.”



“I really do not, and cannot believe it, and that is a fact.”



“Pray do not speak ill of second Bertaudiere. It is really a good room,

very nicely furnished and carpeted. The young fellow has by no means

been unhappy there; the best lodging the Bastile affords has been his.

There is a chance for you.”



“Nay, nay,” said Aramis, coldly; “you will never make me believe there

are any good rooms in the Bastile; and, as for your carpets, they exist

“Very much so, madame.”



“Will you then accept that profit, then, on condition of converting the

jewels into money?”



“But you do not intend to sell you diamonds, I suppose, madame?”

 exclaimed the bewildered jeweler.



“Silence, M. Faucheux, do not disturb yourself about that; give me an

answer simply. You are an honorable man, with whom my family has dealt

for thirty years; you knew my father and mother, whom your own father

and mother served. I address you as a friend; will you accept the gold

of the settings in return for a sum of ready money to be placed in my

hands?”



“Eight hundred thousand francs! it is enormous.”



“I know it.”



“Impossible to find.”



“Not so.”



“But reflect, madame, upon the effect which will be produced by the sale

of your jewels.”



“No one need know it. You can get sets of false jewels made for me,

similar to the real. Do not answer a word; I insist upon it. Sell them

separately, sell the stones only.”



“In that way it is easy. Monsieur is looking out for some sets of

jewels as well as single stones for Madame’s toilette. There will be

a competition for them. I can easily dispose of six hundred thousand

francs’ worth to Monsieur. I am certain yours are the most beautiful.”



“When can you do so?”



“In less than three days’ time.”



“Very well, the remainder you will dispose of among private individuals.

For the present, make me out a contract of sale, payment to be made in

four days.”



“I entreat you to reflect, madame; for if you force the sale, you will

lose a hundred thousand francs.”



“If necessary, I will lose two hundred; I wish everything to be settled

this evening. Do you accept?”



“I do, your ladyship. I will not conceal from you that I shall make

fifty thousand francs by the transaction.”



“So much the better for you. In what way shall I have the money?”


you see now?”



“I see one, two, four musicians with their instruments, and behind them,

urging them on, De Guiche himself. What is he doing there, though?”



“He is waiting until the little door of the staircase, belonging to the

ladies of honor, is opened; by that staircase he will ascend to Madame’s

apartments, where some new pieces of music are going to be performed

during dinner.”



“This is admirable news you tell me.”



“Is it not, monsieur?”



“Was it M. de Malicorne who told you this?”



“Yes, monsieur.”



“He likes you, then?”



“No, monsieur, it is Monsieur that he likes.”



“Why?”



“Because he wishes to belong to his household.”



“And most certainly he shall. How much did he give you for that?”



“The secret which I now dispose of to you, monsieur.”



“And which I buy for a hundred pistoles. Take them.”



“Thank you, monsieur. Look, look, the little door opens; a woman admits

the musicians.”



“It is Montalais.”



“Hush, monseigneur; do not call out her name; whoever says Montalais

says Malicorne. If you quarrel with the one, you will be on bad terms

with the other.”



“Very well; I have seen nothing.”



“And I,” said the valet, pocketing the purse, “have received nothing.”



The chevalier, being now certain that Guiche had entered, returned to

the prince, whom he found splendidly dressed and radiant with joy, as

with good looks. “I am told,” he exclaimed, “that the king has taken the

sun as his device; really, monseigneur, it is you whom this device would

best suit.”



“Where is De Guiche?”



“He cannot be found. He has fled--has evaporated entirely. Your scolding

of this morning terrified him. He could not be found in his apartments.”



“Bah! the hair-brained fellow is capable of setting off post-haste to

his own estates. Poor man! we will recall him. Come, let us dine now.”



“Monseigneur, to-day is a very festival of ideas; I have another.”



“Yes, that is so,” exclaimed the count.



“And she has just given directions in consequence,” continued the

chevalier. “You know, Monsieur de Bragelonne, that the king is to appear

as Spring.”



“It will be admirable,” said De Guiche; “and that is a better reason

for me to remain than any you have yet given, because I am to appear

as Autumn, and shall have to dance with Madame. I cannot absent myself

without the king’s orders, since my departure would interrupt the

ballet.”



“I,” said the chevalier, “am to be only a simple _egypan_; true, it is,

I am a bad dancer, and my legs are not well made. Gentlemen, adieu.

Do not forget the basket of fruit, which you are to offer to Pomona,

count.”



“Rest assured,” said De Guiche, delightedly, “I shall forget nothing.”



“I am now quite certain that he will remain,” murmured the Chevalier de

Lorraine to himself.



Raoul, when the chevalier had left, did not even attempt to dissuade

his friend, for he felt that it would be trouble thrown away; he merely

observed to the comte, in his melancholy and melodious voice, “You are

embarking in a most dangerous enterprise. I know you well; you go to

extremes in everything, and the lady you love does so, too. Admitting

for an instant that she should at last love you--”



“Oh, never!” exclaimed De Guiche.



“Why do you say never?”



“Because it would be a great misfortune for both of us.”



“In that case, instead of regarding you simply imprudent, I cannot but

consider you absolutely mad.”



“Why?”



“Are you perfectly sure--mind, answer me frankly--that you do not wish

her whom you love to make any sacrifice for you?”



“Yes, yes; quite sure.”



“Love her, then, at a distance.”



“What! at a distance?”



“Certainly; what matters being present or absent, since you expect

nothing from her? Love her portrait, a memento.”



“Raoul!”



“Love is a shadow, an illusion, a chimera; be devoted to the affection


awaited; but with a view of insuring the execution of this order in a

royal manner, one last question was necessary, and Louis XIV. put it to

the two gentlemen in the following manner:--“Have you any money?”



“Sire,” replied Saint-Aignan, “we have arranged everything with M.

Colbert.”



“Ah! very well!”



“Yes, sire, and M. Colbert said he would wait upon your majesty, as

soon as your majesty should manifest an intention of carrying out the

_fetes_, of which he has furnished the programme.”



“Let him come in, then,” said the king; and as if Colbert had been

listening at the door for the purpose of keeping himself _au courant_

with the conversation, he entered as soon as the king had pronounced his

name to the two courtiers.



“Ah! M. Colbert,” said the king. “Gentlemen, to your posts,” whereupon

Saint-Aignan and Villeroy took their leave. The king seated himself in

an easy-chair near the window, saying: “The ballet will take place this

evening, M. Colbert.”



“In that case, sire, I will pay all accounts to-morrow.”



“Why so?”



“I promised the tradespeople to pay their bills the day following that

on which the ballet should take place.”



“Very well, M. Colbert, pay them, since you have promised to do so.”



“Certainly, sire; but I must have money to do that.”



“What! have not the four millions, which M. Fouquet promised, been sent?

I forgot to ask you about it.”



“Sire, they were sent at the hour promised.”



“Well?”



“Well, sire, the colored lamps, the fireworks, the musicians, and the

cooks, have swallowed up four millions in eight days.”



“Entirely?”



“To the last penny. Every time your majesty directed the banks of the

grand canal to be illuminated, as much oil was consumed as there was

water in the basins.”



“Well, well, M. Colbert; the fact is, then, you have no more money?”



“I have no more, sire, but M. Fouquet has,” Colbert replied, his face

darkening with a sinister expression of pleasure.

attract my attention--in one word, the mystery of this adventure excites

me, and the truth is, that if I were not so taken with La Valliere--”



“Do not let that interfere with your majesty’s intentions: you have time

enough before you.”



“What do you mean?”



“La Valliere is said to be very strict in her ideas.”



“You excite my curiosity and I am anxious to see her again. Come, let us

walk on.”



The king spoke untruly, for nothing, on the contrary, could make him

less anxious, but he had a part to play, and so he walked on hurriedly.

Saint-Aignan followed him at a short distance. Suddenly the king

stopped; the courtier followed his example.



“Saint-Aignan,” he said, “do you not hear some one moaning?”



“Yes, sire, and weeping, too, it seems.”



“It is in this direction,” said the king. “It sounds like the tears and

sobs of a woman.”



“Run,” said the king; and, following a by-path, they ran across the

grass. As they approached, the cries were more distinctly heard.



“Help, help,” exclaimed two voices. The king and his companion redoubled

their speed, and, as they approached nearer, the sighs they had

heard were changed into loud sobs. The cry of “Help! help!” was again

repeated; at the sound of which, the king and Saint-Aignan increased the

rapidity of their pace. Suddenly at the other side of a ditch, under

the branches of a willow, they perceived a woman on her knees, holding

another in her arms who seemed to have fainted. A few paces from them,

a third, standing in the middle of the path, was calling for assistance.

Perceiving the two gentlemen, whose rank she could not tell, her cries

for assistance were redoubled. The king, who was in advance of his

companion, leaped across the ditch, and reached the group at the very

moment when, from the end of the path which led to the chateau, a dozen

persons were approaching, who had been drawn to the spot by the

same cries that had attracted the attention of the king and M. de




“But, happily, it is the slowest way, is it not?” she replied, as she

led him towards the grove of trees they had so lately quitted.







Chapter XLVI. Aramis’s Correspondence.



When De Guiche’s affairs, which had been suddenly set to right without

his having been able to guess the cause of their improvement, assumed

the unexpected aspect we have seen, Raoul, in obedience to the request

of the princess, had withdrawn in order not to interrupt an explanation,

the results of which he was far from guessing; and he soon after joined

the ladies of honor who were walking about in the flower-gardens. During

this time, the Chevalier de Lorraine, who had returned to his own room,

read De Wardes’s latter with surprise, for it informed him by the hand

of his valet, of the sword-thrust received at Calais, and of all the

details of the adventure, and invited him to inform De Guiche and

Monsieur, whatever there might be in the affair likely to be most

disagreeable to both of them. De Wardes particularly endeavored to prove

to the chevalier the violence of Madame’s affection for Buckingham, and

he finished his letter by declaring that he thought this feeling was

returned. The chevalier shrugged his shoulders at the last paragraph,

and, in fact, De Wardes was out of date, as we have seen. De Wardes was

still only at Buckingham’s affair. The chevalier threw the letter over

his shoulder upon an adjoining table, and said in a disdainful tone,

“It is really incredible; and yet poor De Wardes is not deficient in

ability; but the truth is, it is not very apparent, so easy is it to

grow rusty in the country. The deuce take the simpleton, who ought to

have written to me about matters of importance, and yet he writes such

silly stuff as that. If it had not been for that miserable letter, which

has no meaning at all in it, I should have detected in the grove yonder

a charming little intrigue, which would have compromised a woman, would

have perhaps have been as good as a sword-thrust for a man, and have

diverted Monsieur for many days to come.”



“That is very probable,” said the man, in the calmest and coolest of

tones.



“In that case, then, what would people say? Oh! if any one were to see

me, I declare I should die of very shame.”



“Oh! that would be very silly; I do not believe you would.”



“It might have been different if there had been anything between us; but

to injure myself gratuitously is really very foolish of me; so, adieu,

Monsieur Manicamp.”



“So far so good; I know the man, and now let me see who the woman is,”

 said Saint-Aignan, watching the rounds of the ladder, on which were

standing two pretty little feet covered with blue satin shoes.



“Nay, nay, for pity’s sake, my dear Montalais,” cried Manicamp, “deuce

take it, do not go away; I have a great many things to say to you, of

the greatest importance, still.”



“Montalais,” said Saint-Aignan to himself, “one of the three. Each of

the three gossips had her adventure, only I imagined the hero of this

one’s adventure was Malicorne and not Manicamp.”



At her companion’s appeal, Montalais stopped in the middle of her

descent, and Saint-Aignan could observe the unfortunate Manicamp climb

from one branch of the chestnut-tree to another, either to improve his

situation or to overcome the fatigue consequent upon his inconvenient

position.



“Now, listen to me,” said he; “you quite understand, I hope, that my

intentions are perfectly innocent?”



“Of course. But why did you write me a letter stimulating my gratitude

towards you? Why did you ask me for an interview at such an hour and in

such a place as this?”



“I stimulated your gratitude in reminding you that it was I who had been

the means of your becoming attached to Madame’s household; because most

anxiously desirous of obtaining the interview you have been kind enough

to grant me, I employed the means which appeared to me most certain to

insure it. And my reason for soliciting it, at such an hour and in such

a locality, was, that the hour seemed to me to be the most prudent, and


possible. The traveler, drawing his cloak round him so as to cover the

lower part of his face, cast a rapid glance at Malicorne, and said,

“This gentleman is no friend of mine.”



The landlord started violently.



“I am not acquainted with this gentleman,” continued the traveler.



“What!” exclaimed the host, turning to Malicorne, “are you not this

gentleman’s friend, then?”



“What does it matter whether I am or not, provided you are paid?” said

Malicorne, parodying the stranger’s remark in a very majestic manner.



“It matters so far as this,” said the landlord, who began to perceive

that one person had been taken for another, “that I beg you, monsieur,

to leave the rooms, which had been engaged beforehand, and by some one

else instead of you.”



“Still,” said Malicorne, “this gentleman cannot require at the same

time a room on the first floor and an apartment on the second. If this

gentleman will take the room, I will take the apartment: if he prefers

the apartment, I will be satisfied with the room.”



“I am exceedingly distressed, monsieur,” said the traveler in his soft

voice, “but I need both the room and the apartment.”



“At least, tell me for whom?” inquired Malicorne.



“The apartment I require for myself.”



“Very well; but the room?”



“Look,” said the traveler, pointing towards a sort of procession which

was approaching.



Malicorne looked in the direction indicated, and observed borne upon

a litter, the arrival of the Franciscan, whose installation in his

apartment he had, with a few details of his own, related to Montalais,

and whom he had so uselessly endeavored to convert to humbler views. The

result of the arrival of the stranger, and of the sick Franciscan, was

Malicorne’s expulsion, without any consideration for his feelings,

from the inn, by the landlord and the peasants who had carried the

Franciscan. The details have already been given of what followed this

expulsion; of Manicamp’s conversation with Montalais; how Manicamp, with

greater cleverness than Malicorne had shown, had succeeded in obtaining

news of De Guiche, of the subsequent conversation of Montalais with

chateau.







Chapter LV. Happy as a Prince.



At the very moment he was about entering the chateau, Bragelonne met De

Guiche. But before having been met by Raoul, De Guiche had met Manicamp,

who had met Malicorne. How was it that Malicorne had met Manicamp?

Nothing more simple, for he had awaited his return from mass, where he

had accompanied M. de Saint-Aignan. When they met, they congratulated

each other upon their good fortune, and Manicamp availed himself of

the circumstance to ask his friend if he had not a few crowns still

remaining at the bottom of his pocket. The latter, without expressing

any surprise at the question, which he perhaps expected, answered that

every pocket which is always being drawn upon without anything ever

being put in it, resembles those wells which supply water during the

winter, but which gardeners render useless by exhausting during the

summer; that his, Malicorne’s, pocket certainly was deep, and that

there would be a pleasure in drawing on it in times of plenty, but that,

unhappily, abuse had produced barrenness. To this remark, Manicamp, deep

in thought, had replied, “Quite true!”



“The question, then, is how to fill it?” Malicorne added.



“Of course; but in what way?”



“Nothing easier, my dear Monsieur Manicamp.”



“So much the better. How?”



“A post in Monsieur’s household, and the pocket is full again.”



“You have the post?”



“That is, I have the promise of being nominated.”



“Well!”



“Yes; but the promise of nomination, without the post itself, is like a

purse with no money in it.”



“Quite true,” Manicamp replied a second time.



“Let us try for the post, then,” the candidate had persisted.



“My dear fellow,” sighed Manicamp, “an appointment in his royal

highness’s household is one of the gravest difficulties of our

position.”



“Oh! oh!”



“There is no question that, at the present moment, we cannot ask

Monsieur for anything.”



“Why so?” “Because we are not on good terms with him.”


qualifications, he might be pronounced to be the first and foremost

among the shepherds in the whole country; one might even boldly say he

was the king of shepherds.” A subdued murmur of approbation encouraged

the narrator, who continued:--“His strength equals his courage; no one

displays greater address in hunting wild beasts, nor greater wisdom in

matters where judgment is required. Whenever he mounts and exercises his

horse in the beautiful plains of his inheritance, or whenever he joins

with the shepherds who owe him allegiance, in different games of skill

and strength, one might say that it is the god Mars hurling his lance on

the plains of Thrace, or, even better, that it was Apollo himself, the

god of day, radiant upon earth, bearing his flaming darts in his hand.”

 Every one understood that this allegorical portrait of the king was not

the worst exordium the narrator could have chosen; and consequently it

did not fail to produce its effect, either upon those who, from duty or

inclination, applauded it to the very echo, or on the king himself, to

whom flattery was very agreeable when delicately conveyed, and whom,

indeed, it did not always displease, even when it was a little too

broad. Saint-Aignan then continued:--“It is not in games of glory only,

ladies, that the shepherd Tyrcis had acquired that reputation by which

he was regarded as the king of the shepherds.”



“Of the shepherds of Fontainebleau,” said the king, smilingly, to

Madame.



“Oh!” exclaimed Madame, “Fontainebleau is selected arbitrarily by the

poet; but I should say, of the shepherds of the whole world.” The king

forgot his part of a passive auditor, and bowed.



“It is,” paused Saint-Aignan, amidst a flattering murmur of applause,

“it is with ladies fair especially that the qualities of this king of

the shepherds are most prominently displayed. He is a shepherd with a

mind as refined as his heart is pure; he can pay a compliment with a

charm of manner whose fascination it is impossible to resist; and in his

attachments he is so discreet, that beautiful and happy conquests may

regard their lot as more than enviable. Never a syllable of disclosure,



“And now, sire, that I have justified myself, at least I trust so, in

your majesty’s eyes, grant me leave to retire into a convent. I shall

bless your majesty all my life, and I shall die thanking and loving

Heaven for having granted me one hour of perfect happiness.”



“No, no,” replied the king, “you will live here blessing Heaven, on the

contrary, but loving Louis, who will make your existence one of perfect

felicity--Louis who loves you--Louis who swears it.”



“Oh! sire, sire!”



And upon this doubt of La Valliere, the king’s kisses became so warm

that Saint-Aignan thought it was his duty to retire behind the tapestry.

These kisses, however, which she had not the strength at first to

resist, began to intimidate the young girl.



“Oh! sire,” she exclaimed, “do not make me repeat my loyalty, for this

would show me that your majesty despises me still.”



“Mademoiselle de la Valliere,” said the king, suddenly, drawing back

with an air full of respect, “there is nothing in the world that I love

and honor more than yourself, and nothing in my court, I call Heaven

to witness, shall be so highly regarded as you shall be henceforward.

I entreat your forgiveness for my transport; it arose from an excess

of affection, but I can prove to you that I love you more than ever by

respecting you as much as you can possibly desire or deserve.” Then,

bending before her, and taking her by the hand, he said to her, “Will

you honor me by accepting the kiss I press upon your hand?” And the

king’s lips were pressed respectfully and lightly upon the young girl’s

trembling hand. “Henceforth,” added Louis, rising and bending his glance

upon La Valliere, “henceforth you are under my safeguard. Do not speak

to any one of the injury I have done you, forgive others that which they

may have attempted. For the future, you shall be so far above all those,

that, far from inspiring you with fear, they shall be even beneath your

pity.” And he bowed as reverently as though he were leaving a place

of worship. Then calling to Saint-Aignan, who approached with great


Fouquet and Aramis contemplated it in attitudes as motionless as La

Valliere and the king. “Oh, sire!” murmured La Valliere, “do you hear?”

 and her head fell upon his shoulder.



“Yes,” said the king. “You see, the storm has not passed away.”



“_It is a warning, sire_.” The king smiled. “Sire, it is the voice of

Heaven in anger.”



“Be it so,” said the king. “I agree to accept that peal of thunder as

a warning, and even as a menace, if, in five minutes from the present

moment, it is renewed with equal violence; but if not, permit me to

think that the storm is a storm simply, and nothing more.” And the king,

at the same moment, raised his head, as if to interrogate the heavens.

But, as if the remark had been heard and accepted, during the five

minutes which elapsed after the burst of thunder which had alarmed them,

no renewed peal was heard; and, when the thunder was again heard, it was

passing as plainly as if, during those same five minutes, the storm, put

to flight, had traversed the heavens with the wings of the wind. “Well,

Louise,” said the king, in a low tone of voice, “do you still threaten

me with the anger of Heaven? and, since you wished to regard the storm

as a warning, do you still believe it bodes misfortune?”



The young girl looked up, and saw that while they had been talking, the

rain had penetrated the foliage above them, and was trickling down

the king’s face. “Oh, sire, sire!” she exclaimed, in accents of eager

apprehensions, which greatly agitated the king. “Is it for me,” she

murmured, “that the king remains thus uncovered, and exposed to the

rain? What am I, then?”



“You are, you perceive,” said the king, “the divinity who dissipates the

storm, and brings back fine weather.” In fact, even as the king spoke,

a ray of sunlight streamed through the forest, and caused the rain-drops

which rested upon the leaves, or fell vertically among the openings in

the branches of the trees, to glisten like diamonds.



“Sire,” said La Valliere, almost overcome, but making a powerful effort

