    XI    Ordeal

   XII    Flight

  XIII    In Earth's Shadow

   XIV    The Hawk Strikes

    XV    There Is a Meteor



       *       *       *       *       *









CHAPTER I



_The Plan_



[Illustration: _Like a projectile Hawk Carse shot out in a direction

away from Earth._]



[Sidenote: A screaming streak in the night--a cloud of billowing

steam--and the climax of Hawk Carse's spectacular "Affair of the

Brains" is over.]





The career of Hawk Carse, taken broadly, divides itself into three

main phases, and it is with the Ku Sui adventures of the second phase

that we have been concerned in this intimate narrative. John Sewell,

the historian, baldly condenses those adventures of a century ago

together, but on research and closer scrutiny they take on an

individuality and significance deserving of separate treatment, and

this they have been given here. For fictionized presentation, we have

spaced the adventures into four connected episodes, four acts of a

vibrant drama which ranged clear from Saturn to Earth, the core of

which was the feud between Captain Carse and the power-lusting

Eurasian scientist, Dr. Ku Sui--that feud the reverberations of whose

terrible settling still echo over the solar system--and in this last

act of the drama, set out below, we come to its spectacular climax.



The words of John Sewell's epic history sit lightly on paper; easy

words for Sewell, once the collection of data was over, to write; not

very significant words for the uninitiated and casual reader who does

not see the irresistible forces beneath them. But consider the full

meaning of these words, and glance for a moment at the two figures

conjured up by them. We see Hawk Carse, a man slender in build, but

with gray eyes and lithe, strong-fingered hands and cold, intent face




"Yes," he responded, "the plan. Ban stations a man to keep watch on

Tantril's ranch, while we go back to your laboratory, Eliot, where

you'll make the devices and repair the gravity-plates of my suit.

Then, four nights from now, if the watcher's seen no one arrive, Ban,

Friday and I return and lie in ambush round Tantril's ranch. Awaiting

Dr. Ku. When he comes, he'll surely leave his asteroid somewhere near.

And while he's at Tantril's, we capture the asteroid--and my promise

to the coordinated brains will be kept.



"Then--but that's enough for now; I am so tired. Ban, will you

please--some food--"



Wilson, who had been listening eagerly and, at the end, grinning in

prospect of action with the Hawk, darted off like a spark. A few

minutes later, after his third mouthful of food, Carse murmured:



"We'll use your ship to go to Eliot's lab in, Ban, but I think

you'll--have to--carry me--aboard. So sleepy. Wake me when we get

to--lab."



On this last word his sleep-denied body had its way, and at once he

was deep in the dreamless slumber of exhaustion.



While he slept, the others rapidly carried out his orders. Within two

hours Friday, in the ranch's air-car, had retrieved the cached suit.

Ban Wilson had manned and made ready his personal space-ship for the

trip to the laboratory, and Eliot Leithgow had jotted down a few

preliminary plans for the infra-red and ultra-violet instruments

which Carse would need in order to see the invisible asteroid of Dr.

Ku Sui.









CHAPTER II



_Three Figures in the Dawn_





The fourth night after the Hawk had met his friends at Ban Wilson's

was sunless and Jupiter-less, nor was there the slightest breath of

wind; and in the humid, dank jungle surrounding on three sides the

isuan ranch of the Venusian Lar Tantril the sounds of night-prowling

animals burst full and loud, making an almost continuous babel of

varied and savage noise.



In the midst of this dark inferno, Tantril's ranch was an island of



"Where? Where is it?" yapped Ban excitedly, jerking the instrument to

his eyes again.



"Speak low. Not the asteroid. Three men."



For a tense minute there was silence between them, until, in a low,

crisp voice, the Hawk added:



"Three men in space-suits like ours, coming from the "north" straight

for Tantril's. Ban, you may not be able to see them till they get to

the ranch, so you keep hunting for the asteroid with your glasses.

Friday, you see them?"



"Yes, suh! Three! One ahead of the others!"



"Keep your eyes tight on them. No talking now from either of you

unless it's important."



The steely voice snapped off. And carefully, in his tree, Hawk Carse

brushed aside a fringe of leaves and concentrated on the three figures

the dawn had brought.



       *       *       *       *       *



Hard and sharp they glittered in the flood of ruddy light from

Jupiter, great grotesque figures of metal and bulging fabric, with

shining quarzite face-plates and the abnormally large helmets and

boot-pieces which identified them as being of the enemy. At a level

fifty feet above the jungle's crown they came in fast, horizontal

transit, and there was much of beauty in the picture that they

made--sparkling shapes flying without sound or movement of limb

against the blue sky, over the heaped colors of the jungle below. One

flew slightly in the lead, and he, the watching Hawk felt positive,

was Ku Sui, and the other two his servants--probably men whose brains

had been violated, dehumanized--mere machines in human form.



Straight in the three figures flew, without hesitation or swerving,

closer and closer to the watching man in the tree. The Hawk's lips

compressed as his old enemy neared, and into his watching gray eyes

came the deadly cold emotionless look that was known and feared

throughout space, wherever outlaws walked or flew. Ku Sui--so close!

There, in that even-gliding figure, was the author of the infamy done


miles long, it must be! And that dome--"



"Yes," said the Hawk shortly, "but easy on that now. We've work to do,

and it's got to be done quickly. Now listen:



"There are two main port-locks in the dome for space-ships, and the

starboard one has a smaller man-size lock beside it. We're going to

the smaller one. There'll no doubt be a guard on watch at it, so to

him we're Ku Sui and the two men who accompanied him. We'll have to

chance recognition; but at least there's no difference in the suits

we're wearing, and we'll clasp our glasses on all the way to the lock,

for surely Dr. Ku has to use some similar device. Keep your faces

averted as much as you can though, when near, and your rayguns in your

belts. If there's to be gunplay, leave the first shot to me. You'll

both follow me just as those two followed Dr. Ku."



Ban Wilson asked: "Will you go down into the valley between the trees,

then up the face of the rock? The guard wouldn't see us until we were

right at the lock."



"No, he wouldn't: but he'd wonder why Ku Sui was being so cautious.

We'll go straight across, in full view. We'll get in easily, or--well,

that depends. Ready?"



They fastened the glasses over their eyes, keeping the helmet

face-plates partly open. The rayguns they eased in their belt

holsters, and slid back the hinged palms of their mittens, to give

exit if need be to their gun-hands. They were ready.



Switching on the helmet gravity-plates to swift repulsion, the three

soared out of the trees, soared up on a straight, inclined line for

the dome on the asteroid, a steady, rapid climb that soon raised them

one mile, a second and a third, where they leveled off and sped

straight ahead. Now they could look right into the dome.



Rapidly the port-lock that was their objective grew in size. Behind it

were the buildings: the large, four-winged central structure and the

supplementary workshops and hangars, coolie-quarters and outhouses,

all dim and shimmering through the infra-red--the mysterious, lonely



He paused a minute before the laboratory door. He had expected to find

it locked, and that he would have to seek other means of entrance; but

it was not. By pushing softly against it, it easily gave inward on

silent well-oiled hinges. He entered.



       *       *       *       *       *



Carse found himself in a place of memories, and they were sharp and

painful in his brain as he stood there. Here so much had happened:

here death, and even more than death, had been, and was, so near!



The high-walled circular room was dimly lit by daylight tubes from

above. The damage he, Carse, had wrought when besieged in it, a week

before, had all been repaired. The place was deserted--it seemed even

desolate--but in Carse's moment of memory it was peopled. There had

been the tall, graceful shape in black silk; there the operating table

and the frail old man bound on it; there the four other men, white men

and gowned in the smocks of surgeons, but whose faces were lifeless

and expressionless. Dr. Ku Sui and his four assistant surgeons and his

intended victim, Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow....



They were all gone from the room now, but there was in it one thing of

life that had been there before. It lay behind the inlaid screen

which, standing on roller-legs, lay along the wall at one place. The

Hawk did not look behind the screen. He could see under it, to know

that no one lurked there. He knew what it was meant to conceal. There

his promise lay.



But his promise could not be fulfilled immediately. There were four

wings to the building, four doors leading into the laboratory, and he

had inspected but one.



An open door to his right revealed a corridor similar to the one he

had reconnoitered. He repeated down it his methodical search and found

no one. Then he returned to the laboratory.



Surely there were men somewhere! Surely someone was behind one of the


"Master Scientist Cram, Professors Estapp and Geinst, Doctors Swanson

and Norman--I wish to talk to you. I am Captain Carse, friend of

Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow. Some days ago you aided us in our

escape from here, and in return I made you a promise. Do you

remember?"



There was a pause, a silence so tense it was painful. And then

functioned the miracle of Ku Sui's devising. There came from the

grille a thin, metallic voice from the living dead.



"_I remember you, Captain Carse, and your promise._"



       *       *       *       *       *



A voice from living brain cells, through inorganic lungs and throat

and tongue! A voice from five brains, speaking, for some obscure

reason which even Ku Sui could not explain, in the first person, and

setting to mechanical words the living, pulsing thoughts that sped

back and forth inside the case and were coordinated into unity by the

master brain, which had once been in the body of Master Scientist

Cram. A voice out of nothingness; a voice from what seemed so clearly

to be the dead. To Hawk Carse, man of action, it was unearthly; it was

a miracle the fact of which he could not question, but which he could

not hope to understand. And well might it have been unearthly to

anyone. Even to-day.



Still thrilling to the wonder of it, he went on:



"I have returned here to the asteroid with friends. Primarily I came

to keep my promise to you, but I intend to do more. Dr. Ku Sui is not

here now, and will not be for at least fifteen minutes; but when he

does return, I am going to capture him. I am going to take him alive."



He was silent for a moment.



"Perhaps you do not know," he continued levelly, "but the people of

Earth hold Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow responsible for your

disappearance. He is therefore a fugitive, and there is a price on his



Now--while Ku Sui's attention was on him--now was the time! Now!

Otherwise the Eurasian would turn him over and see that he was white!



It seemed to Ban centuries later that he heard the welcome voice of

the Hawk bark out:



"You are covered, Dr. Ku! And your men. I advise you not to move. Tell

your men to drop their guns--_sh!_"



The sound of the voice from the guard-chamber was replaced by two

spits of a raygun. Unable to restrain himself, Ban rolled over and

looked up.



He saw, first, the figure of the Hawk. Carse had stepped out from

where he had been concealed, in the guard-chamber, and was holding the

gun that had just spoken. Standing upright, close to the inner door of

the port-lock, were two suit-clad coolies. Ban saw that they had

turned to fire at Carse, and that now they were dead. Dead on their

feet in the stiff, heavy stuff of their suits.



Dr. Ku Sui was standing motionless above him, and through the open

face-plate of the Eurasian's helmet Ban could see him gazing at Hawk

Carse with a strange, faint smile on his beautifully chiselled,

ascetic face.



The Hawk came towards them, the raygun steady on his old foe; but

while he was still yards away, and before he could do anything to

prevent it, the Eurasian spoke a few unintelligible words into the

microphone of his helmet-radio. Carse continued forward and stopped

when a few feet away. Dr. Ku bowed as well as he could in his stiff

suit and said courteously, in English:



"So I am trapped. My congratulations, Captain Carse! It was very

neatly done."



       *       *       *       *       *



The two puffed-out, metal-gleaming figures faced each other for a

moment without speaking. And in the silence, Ban Wilson, watchful,

with a raygun he had drawn from his belt, fancied he could _feel_ the

long, bitter, bloody feud between the two, adventurer and scientist,




       *       *       *       *       *



Ku Sui leaned forward a trifle. In that moment, perhaps, he first felt

real concern, for Carse's quiet voice was so confident, so assured. He

attempted to sound him out.



"A gun?" he asked. "Torture? Threats? These against my will? Absurd!

Consider, my friend--even if I seemed to consent to the operations,

could I not easily destroy the brains while ostensibly working on

them?"



"Of course," said Carse, with a faint smile. "And threats and torture

would be absurd. Against your will, Dr. Ku, a more powerful weapon

will have to be used."



The Eurasian's eyes were brilliant with intuition.



"Ah--I see," he murmured. "Eliot Leithgow!"



"Yes, Dr. Ku!"



The two gazed at each other, Carse still with the faint smile, the

other with the face of a statue. Presently the adventurer went on:



"Unfortunately for you, Eliot Leithgow can provide a method of

compulsion neither you nor any other man could ever resist. Not guns,

torture, threats--no. A subtler weapon, worthy of your fine will."



As he spoke, Carse saw the Eurasian's green eyes narrow, and in the

pause that followed he knew that the swift, trained mind behind those

eyes was working. What would it evolve? What move? And those Chinese

words, uttered out by the port-lock--what would they result in, and

when? Dr. Ku Sui was concerned now, the Hawk knew, seriously

concerned, and inevitably, would take serious steps. What was growing

in his resourceful brain? He would have to ward off any trouble when

it came, for he could not know now. He said curtly:



"But enough of that. Now, I have a trifling favor to ask of

you--something concerning the laboratory. Will you please return to

it."



A strange light glimmered for an instant in Dr. Ku Sui's eyes--a

mocking of the slender man before him. Only for an instant; then it


_To the Laboratory_





When the Negro returned, panting, with Ban Wilson, it was to discover

Carse in the control room of the asteroid. He was studying the

multifarious devices and instruments: and they, seeing his face so set

in concentration, did not disturb him, but went over to where Dr. Ku

Sui sat in a chair, and posted themselves behind it.



The apparatus in the control room resembled that of any modern

space-ship of its time, except that there were extra pieces of

unguessed function. Directly in front of Carse was the directional

space-stick above its complicated mechanism: above his eyes was the

wide six-part visi-screen, which in space would record the whole

"sphere" of the heavens: while to his right was the chief control

board, a smooth black surface studded with squads of vari-colored

buttons and lights, These were the essentials, familiar to any ship

navigator; but they were here awesome, for they controlled not the one

or two hundred feet of an ordinary craft, but twenty miles of this

space-ship of rock.



"Yes ... yes...." Carse murmured presently out of his study, then

turned and for the first time appeared to notice Friday and Ban. He

gave orders.



"Eclipse, you see the radio over there? Get Master Leithgow on it for

me--protected beam. Ban, you bind Dr. Ku Sui in that chair, please."



Wilson was surprised.



"Bind him? Isn't he going to run this thing?"



"No."



"_You're_ going to, Carse?"



"Yes. I don't quite trust Dr. Ku. The asteroid's controlled on the

same principles as a space-ship: I'll manage. Please hurry, Ban."



"Cap'n., suh! Already got the Master Scientist!" called Friday from

the radio panel. The Hawk strode swiftly to it and clamped the

individual receivers over his ears.



"M. S.?" he asked into the microphone. "You're there?"



"Yes. Carse? What's happened?"



"All's well, but I'm in a tremendous hurry: I've only got time, now,

to tell you we're on the asteroid with Dr. Ku prisoner, and that I'm

undertaking to transplant the coordinated brains into living human




"Quite. Quite."



"I suppose you find it an unpleasant thought, to have to be the means

of re-making them into whole, normal human beings?"



"On the contrary," breathed the Eurasian, "you inspire a very pleasant

thought in my brain, Captain Carse--though I must confess it is not

exactly the thought you mention." A smile, veiled by the smoke of the

cigarro, appeared on his lips.



The Hawk looked at him closely: the words had a hidden meaning, and it

was clear he was not intended to miss the implied threat. But what was

Ku Sui's thought? Back in his mind an anxiety grew, indefinite, vague

and devilish.



And that vague anxiety was still with him when, fifty-seven minutes

later, the asteroid returned from its inverted U-flight, slowed in its

hurtling drop from space and hovered directly over the secret, hidden

laboratory of Master Scientist Eliot Leithgow.









CHAPTER VIII



_White's Brain--Yellow's Head_





To Friday it was a bad mistake to reveal the location of the

laboratory to Dr. Ku Sui. From him above all men had that location up

to now been kept. Just a few days before, Hawk Carse had risked his

life to preserve the secret. And yet now, deliberately, he was showing

it to the Eurasian!



Nervously, Friday watched him, and he saw that his eyes were alive

with interest as they scanned the visi-screen. It was too much for the

Negro.



"Captain Carse," he whispered, coming close to the adventurer, "look,

suh--he's seein' it all! Shouldn't I blindfold him?"



Carse shook his head, but turned to Dr. Ku, where he sat bound in the

chair scrutinizing the visi-screen.



"Yes, Doctor," he said, "there it is--what you have searched for so

long--the refuge and the laboratory of Eliot Leithgow."



"There, Captain?" murmured the Eurasian. "I see nothing!"



And true, the visi-screen showed nothing but a hill, a lake, a swamp,

and the distant, surrounding jungle.



That spot on Satellite III had been most carefully chosen by the

"Yes." Leithgow answered. "But, Carse--one question I must ask--"



The Hawk, already halfway to the door in the opposite wall of the

laboratory, paused and looked back inquiringly.



"What bodies are to be used?"



"The only ones available, Eliot," the adventurer replied, "since Ku

Sui, in his attempt to destroy the brains, left us only two hours--now

one hour--to complete the first steps of the transfer. They'll be

those four white assistants of his--those men, you remember, whose

intellects he's dehumanized--"



"Yes, yes?" Leithgow pressed him eagerly. "And the fifth?"



"A robot coolie."



"Good God!"



"I know, Eliot! It won't be pleasant for one of those brains to find

itself in a yellow body. But it's that or nothing."



The scientist nodded slowly, his first expression of shock leaving his

old face to sadness: "But, a coolie. A coolie...."



"Come, Eliot, we need speed! Speed! We've but an hour, remember, to

complete the first steps! I'll have Ku Sui and the five men down

immediately."



The Hawk opened the door and strode down the long corridor beyond. His

footsteps were swiftly gone: and then the sound of another door

opening and closing. In the laboratory there was a murmur from the old

man.



"A coolie! A scientist's brain in that ugly yellow head! When

consciousness returns, what a cruel shock!"









CHAPTER IX



_Four Bodies_





Hawk Carse had gone into Leithgow's ship hangar.



It was a vast place, occupying most of the hollowed-out space of the

hill. Seventy feet high and more than two hundred feet long, it was,

and, like the rest of the rooms, metal-walled and sound-proofed. Eliot

Leithgow's own personal space-ship, the _Sandra_, rested there on its

mooring cradle, and by its side was the laboratory's air-car, an

identical shape in miniature, designed for atmospheric transit.



The adventurer, a silent, swift figure, went straight to the air-car

and climbed into its control seat. He tested the controls, found them

responsive, then pressed a button set apart from the others: and the


transplantation of the coordinated brains to living human bodies,

since he is the only person capable of performing the operations. He

does not believe that we can force him to do our will, yet all the

same he is taking no chances: he started the death of the brains. We

shall have to work very fast--all right. But Dr. Ku has other cards to

play against us, and I don't know what they are. You and I must find

out now."



"I somehow feel that you mistrust me," interposed the Eurasian with

mock sadness. "Ah, if you could only read my mind.... Or can you? Is

that what you are coming to?"



The Hawk glanced at Leithgow; and Leithgow nodded, and placed a metal

chair close to one of the cylindrical drums--the one fitted with a

tube and breathing cone.



"Will you sit there. Dr. Ku?" Carse asked.



The green eyes scanned the drum.



"A gas, Master Leithgow?"



"That is all. Not harmful, not painful."



"I see. I see...." the Eurasian murmured. And suddenly, he smiled at

the two men facing him, and said pleasantly to Carse:



"Things repeat! Not long ago I asked you to sit in a chair and submit

to a treatment of mine, and you did as I asked. After so gallant a

precedent, how could I refuse? All right. Now, Master Leithgow, your

gas!"



       *       *       *       *       *



With gentle fingers Eliot Leithgow fitted the cone on the Eurasian's

face and fastened it there. The fingers and thumb of one hand he kept

on Dr. Ku's pulse; with the other he pulled over slowly a control set

in the side of the drum. A ticking and slight hissing became audible,

and two indicators on the drum quivered and crept downward.



A minute of this--the ticking and soft hissing, the indicator's slow

fall, the silk-clad figure in the chair, watched closely by Carse on





Although puzzled by the Hawk's promise, Leithgow could only put his

trust in it and go ahead with the preparations as he had been

directed. He took two of his three laboratory assistants off their

hurried manufacture of quantities of the V-27, and with Ku Sui went

out into the air-car. Passing by way of tube and lake and air, they

were quickly inside the dome on the asteroid, and then into Ku Sui's

laboratory, where Friday waited on guard.



Completely docile and friendly, the Eurasian indicated the various

instruments and devices he would need for the operations, and these

were transported quickly. Then came the case of coordinated brains.

Dr. Ku detached in connections with expert fingers, and all but

Leithgow took a corner and carried it with infinite care to the

air-car outside.



"Do I stay here, suh?" Friday asked the Master Scientist in a

whisper. Though informed of the change in Dr. Ku effected by the V-27,

he was still very suspicious of him. "Seems to me he's a bit too meek

and mild, suh. I think I ought to go down and watch him."



Eliot Leithgow did not quite know what answer to give. The Eurasian

forced the decision.



"I will need," he observed, in his new, frank voice, "all the

assistance you can possibly give me. I am faced by a tremendous task,

and the use of every man will be necessary. I would suggest, Master

Leithgow that the Negro be brought down."



And so Friday came and the asteroid was left unguarded. A mistake,

this turned out to be, but under the circumstances Eliot Leithgow

could hardly be blamed for it. There was so much on their minds, so

much work of vital importance, so desperate a need for speed, that

quite naturally other considerations were subordinated. The asteroid,

to the naked eye, was invisible; it could attract no attention; its

occupants had all been disposed of. Certainly it seemed safe enough to

leave it unguarded for a while.



However, Eliot Leithgow took one precaution. Down in his own

laboratory again, in the midst of the work of transferring Dr. Ku's


On the fifth table lay a dwarf. Its ridiculous body was not over four

and a half feet long, though the head was larger than that of a normal

man. In the old dark ages on Earth this body would have served for the

jester of a lord, the comic butt of a king; in more recent times as

the prize of a circus side-show. The huge, weighty head with its ugly

brooding mask of a face, the child's body below--this was for the

brain of Professor Erich Geinst, the solitary German who had stood

preeminent on Earth in astronomy.



       *       *       *       *       *



These creatures were the result of Hawk Carse's desperate search. They

had composed, with one other, the band of isuanacs that had been

rooting in the swamp at the end of the lake when the asteroid had

first arrived. The Hawk had remembered them, and had quickly seen that

they were the only answer to the problem. And so, with Ban Wilson, he

had gone out for them, his mind steeled to the ghastly thought of the

great scientists' brains in such bodies. In space-suits they had swept

down on them. There had been no time for considerate measures: the

four isuanacs had been abruptly knocked out by the impact of the great

suits swooping against them, and carried back to the laboratory.



Eliot Leithgow had been shocked at the idea of a scientist's brain in

the head of the robot-coolie; how much greater, then, was his horror

when confronted by the need of using these appalling remnants of men!

But he could not protest. What else was there? Ku Sui, under the V-27,

had spoken the truth: the operations would be impossible without the

aid of his four assistants. The brains even now were dying. The choice

was: bodies of isuanacs or death for the brains. The scientist and the

adventurer had chosen.



Circumstances had required their use. Ku Sui's attempt to kill the

brains, thus inflicting a time limit: the presence of the band of



It was to Hawk Carse that the news of imminent danger came first.



He had staggered from the laboratory into a sleeping room and, clad as

he was, fallen over into a berth. He would have wakened in a few

hours, such was his custom of years to four-hour watches on ships, but

he was permitted less than an hour of sleep. A hand pulled at him; a

voice kept calling his name. Awareness returned to him slowly as his

brain roused from the coma of sleep.



"Captain Carse! Captain Carse! Wake up, sir!"



It was one of Leithgow's assistants, a man named Thorpe. His tone was

excited and his manner distraught.



"Yes?" the Hawk muttered thickly. "What is it?"



"It's the asteroid, sir! I was instructed to watch it at intervals,

but I--I guess I fell asleep, and just now--"



Carse sat up. "Yes? What?"



"--when I looked, through the glasses--it was gone!"



"Gone? You're sure? Let me see."



Swiftly, Thorpe at his heels, Carse strode out from the room to a

cubby just off the laboratory, the watch-post, where observational

electelscopes and visi-screens provided a panorama of the surrounding

territory.



He gazed through the electelscope, which had been equipped with an

infra-red device and trained on the asteroid, and saw that now, where

the massive body of rock had been poised, there was nothing. Only the

brilliant light of mid-afternoon, the cloudless sky. Carse swept the

glass around. The search was fruitless. The heavens were bare. The

asteroid had gone.



In half a minute Carse had reasoned out the disappearance, saw the

consequences and made the inevitable decision. Gone was the torpor of

sleep, the weariness of the laboratory; this was a crisis, and this

was his work. During the operations, he had been able merely to obey

orders and do manual work. Now he assumed command.



"Your lapse has imperilled us all," he said curtly to Thorpe. "From

now on we're in great danger. Stay here and keep on watch, and sound

the alarm immediately if the asteroid reappears."


of the asteroid; and the high magnification of this scope, with its

resulting small field of view, will require us continually and

methodically to search through a wide circle behind, in the attempt to

pick up the asteroid, should it appear. A tedious job, with chances of

sighting it about even.... At any rate, we'll have some sort of a

head-start," he finished.



       *       *       *       *       *



This was the opportunity Leithgow had waited for; he wanted a few

frank words with his friend.



"Carse," he said slowly, "I wonder just where that man concealed

behind the secret panel would take the asteroid?"



"I've thought about that too," replied the Hawk. "We may be sure that

he went for allies: Dr. Ku has several on Satellite III. Of them all,

I think he would go for Lar Tantril."



"Tantril?"



"Yes, I think so. Lar Tantril, the Venusian. A fellow of much

self-confidence and one of Ku Sui's chief agents, and who at

present"--he smiled faintly--"nurses a special bitterness against me.

I told you how I tricked him on his ranch. He'd be very eager to

pursue us in the asteroid simply for the opportunity of repaying me

for that trick." The adventurer's left hand rose to the bangs of

flaxen hair combing down over his forehead, and he murmured, musingly:

"I rather hope it _is_ Lar Tantril...."



"You hope so?" Leithgow repeated, surprised. "When he hates you so?

And would be on the lookout for tricks? Why?"



"I would guess, Eliot, that Lar Tantril is not notable for intellect.

Blustering, domineering--pretty much of a braggart, you know.

Certainly he is not a model of caution; and he is not acquainted with

Dr. Ku's asteroid, for he did not even know it existed. He will be

able to run it, of course, with the advice of this hidden man, but

surely he will not have the perception to discern the weakness in it.

"I remember," the beautifully modulated voice went on. "I was not sure

of one subject. Swanson's brain, was it not? Is his condition any

better?"



"We are not sure."



"Ah, yes ... yes...." He appeared to muse, and no one disturbed him in

the minutes of silence that followed. Finally he looked away and said:



"It was a great feat. Thank you, Captain Carse. I am pleased by this

glimpse of the miracle my hands were made to perform. I am ready to

return."



But at the door of his cabin he paused, and his eyes rested again on

the cold, firm face close to him. He said:



"I suppose, Captain Carse, you intend to bring me before Earth's World

Court of Justice?"



"Yes. Along with our living proof of your abduction of the five

scientists."



The Eurasian smiled. "I see. And since there is no questioning that

proof, it would appear that Earthlings will soon levy punishment on

Dr. Ku Sui.... So.... You know, Captain Carse, I find your caution a

great handicap. You keep gassing me; I am locked in; and since I have

observed no excitement aboard the ship, apparently there are no

friends anywhere near me. You have stripped me of everything." His

eyes lowered for a moment. "Everything save this ring."



On the forefinger of his right hand, set simply in a platinum band,

was a large dark stone.



"A black opal," said Dr. Ku. "I have worn it for years and I prize it

highly. Perhaps at the last I will give it to you as a memento of

these past years, Captain Carse." And he went into the cabin, where

they gassed him again.



       *       *       *       *       *



The third week passed.



Crossing the orbit of Mars, now approximately in opposition to

Jupiter, the _Sandra_ streaked on into the last leg of her long

voyage. The sun was a vast, flame-belching disk on her starboard side,




"Carse, I've got you! You've seen our ray, of course, but have you

looked at your speed-indicator? You're caught--and this time you're

going to stay caught. You cannot possibly resist the magnetic ray I

have on you, and in a few minutes you will be drawn right into me. I

advise you to surrender peacefully. No tricks--though there's no trick

that could do you any good! Nothing! I have you this time!"



A frosty smile tightened the Hawk's lips.



"I was right, Eliot," he murmured. "The man behind the panel took the

asteroid to Lar Tantril. He is our opponent."



       *       *       *       *       *



Those were his words, but he did nothing. He seemed content to stand

with cold, intent face looking back through the infra-red

electelscope. The _Sandra's_ speed sank to three hundred, two hundred

and soon a hundred, and the asteroid, which was of course also

decelerating, crept up remorselessly. Ban Wilson had every confidence

in the Hawk, but finally the inaction grew too much for him to bear.



"Jumping Jupiter, Carse!" he sputtered. "--aren't you going to do

anything? Use our rays! Try maneuvering to the side! Damn it, we're

just letting them take us!"



The adventurer might not have heard, for all the sign he gave. The

Earth-clock on the wall ticked on; seconds built minutes, and the

minutes passed. The asteroid was only ten miles astern.



"Eliot," said Carse quietly, "get me one of your infra-red glasses."



He took over the controls again. Carefully he varied the forward

repulsion and sent current to the side gravity-plates, and slowly the

_Sandra_ answered by rotating, longitudinally, reversing her position.

Still maintaining a slight and dwindling speed toward Earth, her bow

swung from that planet's eye-filling panorama and came to face,

instead, the invisible asteroid. When turned completely around, the

men in her control cabin looked through the bow windows right into

the brilliant cone of the purple ray.

that one wild second of impact, all the asteroid's functioning

mechanism had been destroyed. Lar Tantril had not thought quite far

enough: he had not sealed the buildings air-tight against a possible

crashing of the dome, and for that reason alone he and his men had

gone down in full defeat under the drive of the Hawk.



Shreds of flotsam drifting and turning in space around the dome now

became visible--bits of wreckage hurled out from the tear, and also a

number of white, bloated things which once had been the bodies of men.

The outrushing tide of air had taken them along, and now they drifted,

shapeless, all of a kind, in the lifelessness of space.



"Merciful heaven!" whispered Eliot Leithgow, staring at the

desolation. "Gone! Just snuffed out!"



The Hawk took over again and brought and held the _Sandra_ in a

position a quarter of a mile above the now rapidly falling asteroid.



"They're all dead, I'm sure," he said in a voice hard and emotionless

as his graven face. "They must be, for the asteroid is now visible,

and that means that the doors of the power building were open. Inside

and out, all there is dead, machinery and men.... Still, it had to be

done. It was they or we. A variation of the trick we used to escape

from the dome before, Eliot; and Tantril of course didn't expect it

and protect himself as Ku Sui did that other time. It's all done

now--yes, its gravity-plates too, for see, it's turning."



"And fast!" murmured Friday.



The body was rotating around its longer axis at about twice the speed

of an Earth-watch's second hand. Now the dome was sliding under, out

of their sight, the craggy rock belly coming up to take its place.

Nine hundred miles away was Earth--rather, less than that, for the

body was now free to accept the tremendous gravity pull of the planet

so near. Soon it would plunge to destruction there....



       *       *       *       *       *




Continually he was thrown into the rough wall at his right by the

centrifugal force of the asteroid. How far did the passageway extend?

Was Ku Sui at the end of it? It occurred to the Hawk that the asteroid

was a developing shooting star, eating up the few hundred miles of

life that remained, streaking down into the atmosphere, where waited

quick friction and incandescence--and he down in the heart of it,

blind, without clue to what lay in front of him, ignorant of

everything, and with only minutes in which to achieve his end. There'd

be no heat-warning through his insulated suit. Even now, perhaps,

there was no time to get out; already the deadline might have been

crossed; he could not know. He went on....



How far? A hundred yards; two hundred? Easily that, he thought, and

still no variation in the blackness around him! The passageway seemed

straight, so he might now be past the rim of the dome above.



Then, for just a second, he saw a faint wisp of light ahead!



Automatically Carse's raygun came up, but in the time that simple

motion took the light was gone and the blackness was as deep and

lifeless as before. But he was coming to something. He went on,

perhaps a little faster, hot to discover the last emergency resource

of Dr. Ku. He took no pains to avoid making noise, for he knew Ku Sui

could not hear him through the airless space between.



After another hundred yards or so the light from ahead winked again.

It was stronger. Only a second of it, but he now suspected that it

came at regular intervals. It was a machine, perhaps, working under

the hands of the Eurasian. On--on! With the seconds fleeting by,

building to the small total which would bring friction to the

asteroid, and incandescence, and scalding death for him within it!



Again, suddenly, the mysterious light. It left instantly as usual, but

not before it revealed, well ahead, the end of the passage. Quickly he

traversed the remaining distance and felt around with his hands. He

found what he half expected. There was an opening, a doorway, to his

