observed the silence, would remark: "There is yet opportunity. . . . .

Time is passing, brethren. . . . . Any brother or sister. . . . . We

shall be glad to hear from any one." Farmer Bragg, tired with his day's

hoeing, snored quietly in the corner of a seat. Mrs. Parker dropped a

hymn-book. Little Tommy Blake, who had fallen over while napping and hit

his nose, snivelled under his breath. Madeline Brand, as she sat at the

melodeon below the minister's desk, stifled a small yawn with her pretty

fingers. A June bug boomed through the open window and circled around

Deacon Tuttle's head, affecting that good man with the solicitude

characteristic of bald-headed persons when buzzing things are about. Next

it made a dive at Madeline, attracted, perhaps, by her shining eyes, and

the little gesture of panic with which she evaded it was the prettiest

thing in the world; at least, so it seemed to Henry Burr, a

broad-shouldered young fellow on the back seat, whose strong, serious

face is just now lit up by a pleasant smile.



Mr. Lewis, the minister, being seated directly under the clock, cannot

see it without turning around, wherein the audience has an advantage of

him, which it makes full use of. Indeed, so closely is the general

attention concentrated upon the time-piece, that a stranger might draw

the mistaken inference that this was the object for whose worship the

little company had gathered. Finally, making a slight concession of

etiquette to curiosity, Mr. Lewis turns and looks up at the clock, and,

again facing the people, observes, with the air of communicating a piece

of intelligence, "There are yet a few moments."



In fact, and not to put too fine a point upon it, there are five minutes

left, and the young men on the back seats, who attend prayer-meetings to

go home with the girls, are experiencing increasing qualms of alternate

hope and fear as the moment draws near when they shall put their fortune

to the test, and win or lose it all. As they furtively glance over at the

girls, how formidable they look, how superior to common affections, how

look through people without seeing them. There was a buzz of conversation

as the people began to talk together of the decided novelty in the line

of conference-meeting exhortations to which they had just listened. The

tone of almost all was sympathetic, though many were shocked and pained,

and others declared that they did not understand what he had meant. Many

insisted that he must be a little out of his head, calling attention to

the fact that he looked so pale. None of these good hearts were half so

much offended by anything heretical in the utterances of the young man as

they were stirred with sympathy for his evident discouragement. Mr. Lewis

was perhaps the only one who had received a very distinct impression of

the line of thought underlying his words, and he came walking down the

aisle with his head bent and a very grave face, not joining any of the

groups which were engaged in talk. Henry Burr was standing near the door,

his hat in his hand, watching Madeline out of the corners of his eyes, as

she closed the melodeon and adjusted her shawl.



"Good-evening, Henry," said Mr. Lewis, pausing beside the young man. "Do

you know whether anything unpleasant has happened to George lately to

account for what he said to-night?"



"I do not, sir," replied Henry.



"I had a fancy that he might have been slighted by some one, or given the

cold shoulder. He is very sensitive."



"I don't think any one in the village would slight him," said Henry.



"I should have said so too," remarked the minister, reflectively. "Poor

boy, poor boy! He seems to feel very badly, and it is hard to know how to

cheer him."



"Yes, sir--that is--certainly," replied Henry incoherently, for

Madeline was now coming down the aisle.



In his own preoccupation not noticing the young man's, Mr. Lewis passed

out.



As she approached the door Madeline was talking animatedly with another

young lady.



"Good-evening," said Henry.



"Poor fellow!" continued Madeline to her companion, "he seemed quite

hopeless."




"Don't put it on that ground," said Henry, "it's sheer vanity that makes

you say so. You know your faults are just big enough to be beauty-spots,

and that's why you'd rather keep 'em."



She reflected a moment, and then said, decisively--



"That's a compliment. I don't believe I like 'em from you. Don't make me

any more."



Perhaps she did not take the trouble to analyse the sentiment that

prompted her words. Had she done so, she would doubtless have found it in

a consciousness when in his presence of being surrounded with so fine and

delicate an atmosphere of unspoken devotion that words of flattery sounded

almost gross.



They paused before a gate. Pushing it open and passing within, she said,

"Good-night."



"One word more. I have a favour to ask," he said. "May I take you to the

picnic?"



"Why, I think no escort will be necessary," she replied; "we go in broad

daylight; and there are no bears or Indians at Hemlock Hollow."



"But your basket. You'll need somebody to carry your basket."



"Oh yes, to be sure, my basket," she exclaimed, with an ironical accent.

"It will weigh at least two pounds, and I couldn't possibly carry it

myself, of course. By all means come, and much obliged for your

thoughtfulness."



But as she turned to go in she gave him a glance which had just enough

sweetness in it to neutralize the irony of her words. In the treatment of

her lovers, Madeline always punctured the skin before applying a drop of

sweetness, and perhaps this accounted for the potent effect it had to

inflame the blood, compared with more profuse but superficial

applications of less sharp-tongued maidens.



Henry waited until the graceful figure had a moment revealed its charming

outline against the lamp-lit interior, as she half turned to close the

door. Love has occasional metaphysical turns, and it was an odd feeling

that came over him as he walked away, being nothing less than a rush of

thankfulness and self-congratulation that he was not Madeline. For, if he

had been she, he would have lost the ecstasy of loving her, of



The funeral had taken place on the day fixed for the picnic. The latter,

in consideration of the saddened temper of the young people, was put off

a fortnight.









CHAPTER III.





About half-past eight on the morning of the day set for the postponed

picnic, Henry knocked at Widow Brand's door. He had by no means forgotten

Madeline's consent to allow him to carry her basket, although two weeks

had intervened.



She came to the door herself. He had never seen her in anything that set

off her dark eyes and olive complexion more richly than the simple picnic

dress of white, trimmed with a little crimson braid about the neck and

sleeves, which she wore to-day. It was gathered up at the bottom for

wandering in the woods, just enough to show the little boots. She looked

surprised at seeing him, and exclaimed--



"You haven't come to tell me that the picnic is put off again, or Laura's

sick?"



"The picnic is all right, and Laura too. I've come to carry your basket

for you."



"Why, you're really very kind," said she, as if she thought him slightly

officious.



"Don't you remember you told me I might do so?" he said, getting a little

red under her cool inspection.



"When did I?"



"Two weeks ago, that evening poor George spoke in meeting."



"Oh!" she answered, smiling, "so long ago as that? What a terrible memory

you have! Come in just a moment, please; I'm nearly ready."



Whether she merely took his word for it, or whether she had remembered

her promise perfectly well all the time, and only wanted to make him ask

twice for the favour, lest he should feel too presumptuous, I don't

pretend to know. Mrs. Brand set a chair for him with much cordiality. She

was a gentle, mild-mannered little lady, such a contrast in style and

character to Madeline that there was a certain amusing fitness in the

latter's habit of calling her "My baby."



"You have a very pleasant day for your picnic, Mr. Burr," said she.

"So would I, Tom; I want a little exercise," urged Henry with a

hypocritical grin, as he stood up in an attitude of readiness.



"Oh, I like to row. 'I'd a great deal rather. Honestly," asseverated Tom,

as he made the water foam with the violence of his strokes, compelling

Henry to resume his seat to preserve his equilibrium.



"It's perfectly plain that you don't want to sit by me, Tom. That hurts

my feelings," said Madeline, pretending to pout.



"Oh no, it isn't that," protested Tom. "Only I'd rather row; that is, I

mean, you know, it's such fun rowing."



"Very well, then," said Madeline, "I sha'n't help you any more; and here

they all are tying their boats on to ours."



Sure enough, one of the other boats had fastened its chain to the stern

of theirs, and the others had fastened to that; their oarsmen were lying

off and Tom was propelling the entire flotilla.



"Oh, I can row 'em all just as easy's not," gasped the devoted youth, the

perspiration rolling down his forehead.



But this was a little too bad, and Henry soon cast off the other boats,

in spite of the protests of their occupants, who regarded Tom's brawn and

muscle as the common stock of the entire party, which no one boat had a

right to appropriate.



On reaching Hemlock Hollow, Madeline asked the poor young man for his

hat, and returned it to him adorned with evergreens, which nearly

distracted him with bashfulness and delight, and drove him to seek a

safety-valve for his excitement in superhuman activity all the rest of

the morning, arranging croquet sets, hanging swings, breaking ice,

squeezing lemons, and fetching water.



"Oh, how thirsty I am!" sighed Madeline, throwing down her croquet

mallet.



"The ice-water is not yet ready, but I know a spring a little way off

where the water is cold as ice," said Henry.



"Show it to me this instant," she cried, and they walked off together,

followed by Ida Lewis's unhappy eyes.



The distance to the spring was not great, but the way was rough, and once

"If you'd like to, you may."



Henry was not in the least a conceited fellow, but it was impossible that

he should not understand the reason why Ida, who all the morning had

looked forlorn enough, was now the life of the croquet-ground, and full

of smiles and flushes. She was a good player, and had a corresponding

interest in beating, but her equanimity on the present occasion was not

in the least disturbed by the disgraceful defeat which Henry's

awkwardness and absence of mind entailed on their aide.



But her portion of sunshine for that day was brief enough, for Madeline

soon returned from her boat-ride, and Henry found an excuse for leaving

the game and joining her where she sat on the ground between the knees of

a gigantic oak sorting pond-lilies, which the girls were admiring. As he

came up, she did not appear to notice him. As soon as he had a chance

to speak without being overheard, he said, soberly--



"Tom ought to thank me for that boat-ride, I suppose."



"I don't know what you mean," she answered, with assumed carelessness.



"I mean that you went to punish me."



"You're sufficiently conceited," she replied. "Laura, come here; your

brother is teasing me."



"And do you think I want to be teased to?" replied that young lady,

pertly, as she walked off.



Madeline would have risen and left Henry, but she was too proud to let

him think that she was afraid of him.. Neither was she afraid, but she

was confused, and momentarily without her usual self-confidence. One

reason for her running off with Tom had been to get a chance to think. No

girl, however coolly her blood may flow, can be pressed to a man's

breast, wildly throbbing with love for her, and not experience some

agitation in consequence. Whatever may be the state of her sentiments,

there is a magnetism in such a contact which she cannot at once throw

off. That kiss had brought her relations with Henry to a crisis. It had

precipitated the necessity of some decision. She could no longer hold him

Far, however, from appearing discomposed thereby, he returned it with

such interest that at least half the girls thought they had captivated

him by the end of the morning service. They all agreed that he was

awfully handsome, though Laura maintained that he was rather too pretty

for a man. He was certainly very pretty. His figure was tall, slight, and

elegant. He had delicate hands and feet, a white forehead, deep blue,

smiling eyes, short, curly, yellow, hair, and a small moustache, drooping

over lips as enticing as a girl's. But the ladies voted his manners yet

more pleasing than his appearance. They were charmed by his easy

self-possession, and constant alertness as to details of courtesy. The

village beaus scornfully called him "cityfied," and secretly longed to be

like him. A shrewder criticism than that to which he was exposed would,

however, have found the fault with Cordis's manners that, under a show of

superior ease and affability, he was disposed to take liberties with his

new acquaintances, and exploit their simplicity for his own

entertainment. Evidently he felt that he was in the country.



That very first Sunday, after evening meeting, he induced Fanny Miller,

at whose father's house he boarded, to introduce him to Madeline, and

afterward walked home with her, making himself very agreeable, and

crowning his audacity by asking permission to call. Fanny, who went along

with them, tattled of this, and it produced a considerable sensation

among the girls, for it was the wont of Newville wooers to make very

gradual approaches. Laura warmly expressed to Madeline her indignation at

the impudence of the proceeding, but that young lady was sure she did not

see any harm in it; whereupon Laura lost her temper a little, and hinted

that it might be more to her credit if she did. Madeline replied

pointedly, and the result was a little spat, from which Laura issued

second best, as people generally did who provoked a verbal strife with

Madeline. Meanwhile it was rumoured that Cordis had availed himself of

the permission that he had asked, and that he had, moreover, been seen

talking with her in the post-office several times.



The drug-store being next door to the post-office, it was easy for him,

elsewhere.



And so, while half the village was agog over the flirtation of the new

drug-clerk with Madeline Brand, and Laura was lying awake nights fretting

about it, Henry went gaily to and from his work in a state of blissful

ignorance. And it was very blissful. He was exultant over the progress he

had made in his courtship at the picnic. He had told his love--he had

kissed her. If he had not been accepted, he had, at least, not been

rejected, and that was a measure of success quite enough to intoxicate so

ardent and humble a lover as he. And, indeed, what lover might not have

taken courage at remembering the sweet pity that shone in her eyes at the

revelation of his love-lorn state? The fruition of his hopes, to which he

had only dared look forward as possibly awaiting him somewhere in the dim

future, was, maybe, almost at hand. Circumstances combined to prolong

these rose-tinted dreams. A sudden press of orders made it necessary to

run the shop till late nights. He contrived with difficulty to get out

early one evening so as to call on Madeline; but she had gone out, and he

failed to see her. It was some ten days after the picnic that, on calling

a second time, he found her at home. It chanced to be the very evening of

the day on which the conversation between Madeline and Cordis, narrated

in the last chapter, had taken place.



She did not come in till Henry had waited some time in the parlour, and

then gave him her hand in a very lifeless way. She said she had a bad

head-ache, and seemed disposed to leave the talking to him. He spoke of

the picnic, but she rather sharply remarked that it was so long ago that

she had forgotten all about it. It did seem very long ago to her, but to

him it was very fresh. This cool ignoring of all that had happened that

day in modifying their relations at one blow knocked the bottom out of

all his thinking for the past week, and left him, as it were, all in the

air. While he felt that the moment was not propitious for pursuing that

but he never again will have such sense of absolute right and eternally

foreordained ownership in any thing as he had long years ago in that

sweet girl whom some other fellow married. For, alas! this seemingly

inviolable divine title is really no security at all. Love is liable to

ten million suits for breach of warranty. The title-deeds he gives to

lovers, taking for price their hearts' first-fruits, turn out no titles

at all. Half the time, title to the same property is given to several

claimants, and the one to finally take possession is often enough one who

has no title from love at all.



Henry had been hit hard, but there was a dogged persistence in his

disposition that would not allow him to give up till he had tested his

fortune to the uttermost. His love was quite unmixed with vanity, for

Madeline had never given him any real reason to think that she loved him,

and, therefore, the risk of an additional snub or two counted for nothing

to deter him. The very next day he left the shop in the afternoon and

called on her. Her rather constrained and guarded manner was as if she

thought he had come to call her to account, and was prepared for him. He,

on the contrary, tried to look as affable and well satisfied as if he

were the most prosperous of lovers. When he asked her if she would go out

driving with him that afternoon, she was evidently taken quite off her

guard. For recrimination she was prepared, but not for this smiling

proposal. But she recovered herself in an instant, and said--



"I'm really very much obliged. It is very considerate of you, but my

mother is not very well this afternoon, and I feel that I ought not to

leave her." Smothering a sick feeling of discouragement, he said, as

cheerfully as possible--



"I'm very sorry indeed. Is your mother seriously sick?"



"Oh no, thank you. I presume she will be quite well by morning."



"Won't you, perhaps, go to-morrow afternoon, if she is better? The river

road which you admire so much is in all its midsummer glory."

He had ado to control the impulse that prompted him to rise and leave the

table. And then, with that suddenness characteristic of highly wrought

moods, his feelings changed, and he discovered how soft-hearted his own

sorrow had made him toward all who suffered in the same way. His eyes

smarted with pitifulness as he noted the pains with which the little girl

opposite him had tried to make the most of her humble charms in the hope

of catching his eye. And the very poverty of those charms made her

efforts the more pathetic. He blamed his eyes for the hard clearness with

which they noted the shortcomings of the small, unformed features, the

freckled skin, the insignificant and niggardly contour, and for the

cruelty of the comparison they suggested between all this and Madeline's

rich beauty. A boundless pity poured out of his heart to cover and

transfigure these defects, and he had an impulse to make up to her for

them, if he could, by sacrificing himself to her, if she desired. If she

felt toward him as he toward Madeline, it were worth his life to save the

pity of another such heart-breaking. So should he atone, perhaps, for the

suffering Madeline had given him.



After tea he went by himself to nurse these wretched thoughts, and

although the sight of Ida had suggested them, he went on to think of

himself, and soon became so absorbed in his own misery that he quite

forgot about her, and, failing to rejoin the girls that evening, Ida had

to go home alone, which was a great disappointment to her. But it was,

perhaps, quite as well, on the whole, for both of them that he was not

thrown with her again that evening.



It is never fair to take for granted that the greatness of a sorrow or a

loss is a just measure of the fault of the one who causes it. Madeline

was not willingly cruel. She felt sorry in a way for Henry whenever his

set lips and haggard face came under her view, but sorry in a dim and

distant way, as one going on a far and joyous journey is sorry for the

"Is he?"



"Yes, very, and so am I."



There was a long silence, and Laura took up her work-basket, and bent her

face over it, and seemed to have a good deal of trouble in finding some

article in it.



Suddenly he said, in a quick, spasmodic way--



"Is Madeline married?"



Good God! Would she never speak!



"No," she answered, with a falling inflection.



His heart, which had stopped beating, sent a flood of blood through every

artery. But she had spoken as if it were the worst of news, instead of

good. Ah! could it be? In all his thoughts, in all his dreams by night or

day, he had never thought, he had never dreamed of that.



"Is she dead?" he asked, slowly, with difficulty, his will stamping the

shuddering thought into words, as the steel die stamps coins from strips

of metal.



"No," she replied again, with the same ill-boding tone.



"In God's name, what is it?" he cried, springing to his feet. Laura

looked out at the window so that she might not meet his eye as she

answered, in a barely audible voice--



"There was a scandal, and he deserted her; and afterward--only last

week--she ran away, nobody knows where, but they think to Boston."



It was about two o'clock in the afternoon when Henry heard the fate of

Madeline. By four o'clock he was on his way back to Boston. The

expression of his face as he sits in the car is not that which might be

expected under the circumstances. It is not that of a man crushed by a

hopeless calamity, but rather of one sorely stricken indeed, but still

resolute, supported by some strong determination which is not without

hope.



Before leaving Newville he called on Mrs. Brand, who still lived in the

same house. His interview with her was very painful. The sight of him set

her into vehement weeping, and it was long before he could get her to

talk. In the injustice of her sorrow, she reproached him almost bitterly



"I want what I have always wanted: I want you for my wife."



She looked at him with stupid amazement, as if the real meaning of this

already once declared desire had only just distinctly reached her mind,

or as if the effect of its first announcement had been quite effaced by

the succeeding outburst.



"Why, I thought you knew! You can't have heard--about me," she said.



"I have heard, I know all," he exclaimed, taking a step forward and

standing over her. "Forgive me, darling! forgive me for being almost glad

when I heard that you were free, and not married out of my reach. I can't

think of anything except that I've found you. It is you, isn't it? It is

you. I don't care what's happened to you, if it is only you."



As he spoke in this vehement, fiery way, she had been regarding him with

an expression of faint curiosity. "I believe you do really mean it," she

said, wonderingly, lingering over the words; "you always were a queer

fellow."



"Mean it!" he exclaimed, kneeling before her, his voice all tremulous

with the hope which the slightly yielding intonation of her words had

given him. "Yes--yes--I mean it."



The faint ghost of a smile, which only brought out the sadness of her

face, as a taper in a crypt reveals its gloom, hovered about her eyes.



"Poor boy!" she said; "I've, treated you very badly. I was going to make

an end of myself this afternoon, but I will wait till you are tired of

your fancy for me. It will make but little difference. There! there!

Please don't kiss me."









CHAPTER VIII.





He did not insist on their marriage taking place at once, although in her

mood of dull indifference she would not have objected to anything he

might have proposed. It was his hope that after a while she might become

calmer, and more cheerful. He hoped to take in his at the altar a hand a

little less like that of a dead person.




One morning a bitter thing happened to her. She had slept unusually well,

and her dreams had been sweet and serene, untinged by any shadow of her

waking thoughts, as if, indeed, the visions intended for the sleeping

brain of some fortunate woman had by mistake strayed into hers. For a

while she had lain, half dozing, half awake, pleasantly conscious of the

soft, warm bed, and only half emerged from the atmosphere of dreamland.

As at last she opened her eyes, the newly risen sun, bright from his

ocean bath, was shining into the room, and the birds were singing. A

lilac bush before the window was moving in the breeze, and the shadows of

its twigs were netting the sunbeams on the wall as they danced to and

fro.



The spirit of the jocund morn quite carried her away, and all

unthinkingly she bounded out into the room and, stood there with a smile

of sheer delight upon her face. She had forgotten all about her shame and

sorrow. For an instant they were as completely gone from her mind as if

they had never been, and for that instant nowhere did the sun's

far-reaching eye rest on a blither or more innocent face. Then memory

laid its icy finger on her heart and stilled its bounding pulse. The glad

smile went out, like a taper quenched in Acheron, and she fell prone upon

the floor, crying with hard, dry sobs, "O God! O God! O God!"



That day, and for many days afterward, she thought again and again of

that single happy instant ere memory reclaimed its victim. It was the

first for so long a time, and it was so very sweet, like a drop of water

to one in torment. What a heaven a life must be which had many such

moments! Was it possible that once, long ago, her life had been such an

one--that she could awake mornings and not be afraid of remembering? Had

there ever been a time when the ravens of shame and remorse had not

perched above her bed as she slept, waiting her waking to plunge their

beaks afresh into her heart? That instant of happiness which had been

longer."



"You consent, then?" said he, quite encouraged by her quiet air and

apparent willingness.



"Don't press me for an answer to-night," she replied, after a pause,

during which she regarded him with a singular fixity of expression. "Wait

till to-morrow. You shall have an answer to-morrow. You are quite right.

I've been thinking so myself. It is no use to put it off any longer."



He spoke to her once or twice after this, but she was gazing out through

the window into the darkening sky, and did not seem to hear him. He rose

to go, and had already reached the hail, when she called him--



"Come back a moment Henry."



He came back.



"I want you to kiss me," she said.



She was standing in the middle of the room. Her tall figure in its black

dress was flooded with the weird radiance of the rising moon, nor was the

moonshine whiter than her cheek, nor sadder than her steadfast eyes. Her

lips were soft and yielding, clinging, dewy wet. He had never thought a

kiss could be so sweet, and yet he could have wept, he knew not why.



When he reached his lodgings he was in an extremely nervous condition. In

spite of all that was painful and depressing in the associations of the

event, the idea of having Madeline for his wife in a few days more had

power to fill him with feverish excitement, an excitement all the more

agitating because it was so composite in its elements, and had so little

in common with the exhilaration and light-heartedness of successful

lovers in general. He took one of the doctor's sleeping powders, tried to

read a dry book on electricity, endeavoured to write a business letter,

smoked a cigar, and finally went to bed.



It seemed to him that he went all the next day in a dazed, dreaming

state, until the moment when he presented himself, after tea, at

Madeline's lodgings, and she opened the door to him. The surprise which

he then experienced was calculated to arouse him had he been indeed


CHAPTER X.





The next day he called at 79 ---- Street. There was a modest shingle

bearing the name "Dr. Gustav Heidenhoff" fastened up on the side of the

house, which was in the middle of a brick block. On announcing that he

wanted to see the doctor, he was ushered into a waiting-room, whose walls

were hung with charts of the brain and nervous system, and presently a

tall, scholarly-looking man, with a clean-shaven face, frosty hair, and

very genial blue eyes, deep set beneath extremely bushy grey eyebrows,

entered and announced himself as Dr. Heidenhoff. Henry, who could not

help being very favourably impressed by his appearance, opened the

conversation by saying that he wanted to make some inquiries about the

Thought-extirpation process in behalf of a friend who was thinking of

trying it. The doctor, who spoke English with idiomatic accuracy, though

with a slightly German accent, expressed his willingness to give him all

possible information, and answered all his questions with great apparent

candour, illustrating his explanations by references to the charts which

covered the walls of the office. He took him into an inner office and

showed his batteries, and explained that the peculiarity of his process

consisted, not in any new general laws and facts of physiology which he

had discovered, but entirely in peculiarities in his manner of applying

his galvanic current, talking much about apodes, cathodes,

catelectrotonus and anelectrotonus, resistance and rheostat, reactions,

fluctuations, and other terms of galvano-therapeutics. The doctor frankly

admitted that he was not in a way of making a great deal of money or

reputation by his discovery. It promised too much, and people

consequently thought it must be quackery, and as sufficient proof of this

he mentioned that he had now been five years engaged in practising the

Thought-extirpation process without having attained any considerable

celebrity or attracting a great number of patients. But he had a

sufficient support in other branches of medical practice, he added, and,

so long as he had patients enough for experimentation with the aim of

improving the process, he was quite satisfied.



He listened with great interest to Henry's account of Madeline's case.

entire interview, at one moment carried away by the contagious confidence

of the doctor's tone, and impressed by his calm, clear, scientific

explanations and the exhibition of the electrical apparatus, and the next

moment reacting into utter scepticism and contemptuous impatience with

himself for even listening to such a preposterous piece of imposition. By

the time he had walked half a block, the sights and sounds of the busy

street, with their practical and prosaic suggestions, had quite

dissipated the lingering influence of the necromantic atmosphere of Dr.

Heidenhoff's office, and he was sure that he had been a fool.



He went to see Madeline that evening, with his mind made up to avoid

telling her, if possible, that he had made the appointment, and to make

such a report as should induce her to dismiss the subject. But he found

it was quite impossible to maintain any such reticence toward one in her

excited and peremptory mood. He was forced to admit the fact of the

appointment.



"Why didn't you make it in the forenoon?" she demanded.



"What for? It is only a difference of a few hours," he replied.



"And don't you think a few hours is anything to me?" she cried, bursting

into hysterical tears.



"You must not be so confident," he expostulated. "It scares me to see you

so when you are so likely to be disappointed. Even the doctor said he

could not promise success. It would depend on many things."



"What is the use of telling me that ?" she said, suddenly becoming very

calm. "When I've just one chance for life, do you think it is kind to

remind me that it may fail? Let me alone to-night."



The mental agitation of the past two days, supervening on so long a

period of profound depression, had thrown her into a state of agitation

bordering on hysteria. She was constantly changing her attitude, rising

and seating herself, and walking excitedly about. She would talk rapidly

one moment, and then relapse into a sudden chilled silence in which she

seemed to hear nothing. Once or twice she laughed a hard, unnatural laugh

"I think," said Henry, "that they would be very much puzzled what to do."



"Exactly," said the doctor; "I think so too. Such a case would bring out

clearly the utter confusion and contradiction in which the current

theories of ethics and moral responsibility are involved. It is time the

world was waked up on that subject. I should hugely enjoy precipitating

such a problem on the community. I'm hoping every day a murderer will

come in and require my services.



"There is another sort of case which I should also like to have," he

continued; shifting his cigar to the other side of his mouth, and

uncrossing and recrossing his knees. "Suppose a man has done another a

great wrong, and, being troubled by remorse, comes to me and has the

sponge of oblivion passed over that item in his memory. Suppose the man

he has wronged, pursuing him with a heart full of vengeance, gets him at

last in his power, but at the same time finds out that he has forgotten,

and can't be made to remember, the act he desires to punish him for."



"It would be very vexatious," said Henry..



"Wouldn't it, though? I can imagine the pursuer, the avenger, if a really

virulent fellow, actually weeping tears of despite as he stands before

his victim and marks the utter unconsciousness of any offence with which

his eyes meet his own. Such a look would blunt the very stiletto of a

Corsican. What sweetness would there be in vengeance if the avenger, as

he plunged the dagger in his victim's bosom, might not hiss in his ear,

'Remember!' As well find satisfaction in torturing an idiot or mutilating

a corpse. I am not talking now of brutish fellows, who would kick a stock

or stone which they stumbled over, but of men intelligent enough to

understand what vengeance is."



"But don't you fancy the avenger, in the case you supposed, would retain

some bitterness towards his enemy, even though he had forgotten the

offence?"



"I fancy he would always feel a certain cold dislike and aversion for

him," replied the doctor--"an aversion such as one has for an object

"Excuse me, my dear sir. Acts merely express the character. The

recollection of those acts is what impresses the character, and gives it

a tendency in a particular direction. And that is why I say, if memory

were abolished, constitutionally bad people would remain at their

original and normal degree of badness, instead of going from bad to

worse, as they always have done hitherto in the history of mankind.

Memory is the principle of moral degeneration. Remembered sin is the most

utterly diabolical influence in the universe. It invariably either

debauches or martyrizes men and women, accordingly as it renders them

desperate and hardened, or makes them a prey to undying grief and

self-contempt. When I consider that more sin is the only anodyne for sin,

and that the only way to cure the ache of conscience is to harden it, I

marvel that even so many as do essay the bitter and hopeless way of

repentance and reform. In the main, the pangs of conscience, so much

vaunted by some, do most certainly drive ten deeper into sin where they

bring one back to virtue."



"But," remarked Henry, "suppose there were no memory, and men did forget

their acts, they would remain just as responsible for them as now."



"Precisely; that is, not at all," replied the doctor.



"You don't mean to say there is no such thing as responsibility, no such

thing as justice. Oh, I see, you deny free will. You are a

necessitarian."



The doctor waved his hand rather contemptuously.



"I know nothing about your theological distinctions; I am a doctor. I say

that there is no such thing as moral responsibility for past acts, no

such thing as real justice in punishing them, for the reason that human

beings are not stationary existences, but changing, growing, incessantly

progressive organisms, which in no two moments are the same. Therefore

justice, whose only possible mode of proceeding is to punish in present

time for what is done in past time, must always punish a person more or

less similar to, but never identical with, the one who committed the

offence, and therein must be no justice.





Her attitude was peculiar. Her feet were on the floor, her left hand

rested on the sofa by her side, her right was raised to one temple and

checked in the very act of pushing back a heavy braid of hair which had

been disarranged in sleep. Her eyebrows were slightly contracted, and she

was staring at the carpet. So concentrated did her faculties appear to be

in the effort of reflection that she did not notice Henry's entrance

until, standing by her aide, he asked, in a voice which he vainly tried

to steady--



"How do you feel ?"



She did not look up at him at all, but replied, in the dreamy, drawling

tone of one in a brown study--



"I--feel--well. I'm--ever--so--rested."



"Did you just wake up?" he said, after a moment. He did not know what to

say.



She now glanced up at him, but with an expression of only partial

attention, as if still retaining a hold on the clue of her thoughts.



"I've been awake some time trying to think it out," she said.



"Think out what?" he asked, with a feeble affectation of ignorance. He

was entirely at loss what course to take with her.



"Why, what it was that we came here to have me forget," she said,

sharply. "You needn't think the doctor made quite a fool of me. It was

something like hewing, harring, Howard. It was something that began with

'H,' I'm quite sure. 'H,'" she continued, thoughtfully, pressing her hand

on the braid she was yet in the act of pushing back from her forehead.

"'H,'--or maybe--'K.' Tell me, Henry. You must know, of course."



"Why--why," he stammered in consternation. "If you came here to forget

it, what's the use of telling you, now you've forgotten it, that is--I

mean, supposing there was anything to forget."



"I haven't forgotten it," she declared. "The process has been a failure

anyhow. It's just puzzled me for a minute. You might as well tell me.

Why, I've almost got it now. I shall remember it in a minute," and she

his face under this terrible inquisition.



"Yes," said she, slowly, "I do remember your proposing she should come

and my not wanting her. I can't imagine why. I must have been out of my

head, as you say. Henry," she continued, regarding him with eyes of

sudden softness, "you must have been very good to me. Dr. Heidenhoff

could never make me forget that."



The next day her mother came. Henry met her at the station and explained

everything to her, so that she met Madeline already prepared for the

transformation, that is, as much prepared as the poor woman could be. The

idea was evidently more than she could take in. In the days that followed

she went about with a dazed expression on her face, and said very little.

When she looked at Henry, it was with a piteous mingling of gratitude and

appeal. She appeared to regard Madeline with a bewilderment that

increased rather than decreased from day to day. Instead of becoming

familiar with the transformation, the wonder of it evidently grew on her.

The girl's old, buoyant spirits, which had returned in full flow, seemed

to shock and pain her mother with a sense of incongruity she could not

get over. When Madeline treated her lover to an exhibition of her old

imperious tyrannical ways, which to see again was to him sweeter than the

return of day, her mother appeared frightened, and would try feebly to

check her, and address little deprecating remarks to Henry that were very

sad to hear. One evening, when he came in in the twilight, he saw

Madeline sitting with "her baby," as she had again taken to calling her

mother, in her arms, rocking and soothing her, while the old lady was

drying and sobbing on her daughter's bosom.



"She mopes, poor little mother!" said Madeline to Henry. "I can't think

what's the matter with her. We'll take her off with us on our wedding

trip. She needs a little change."



"Dear me, no, that will never do," protested the little woman, with her

usual half-frightened look at Henry. "Mr. Burr wouldn't think that nice

at all."




