them away from this awful country.  Once on board the Marjorie W. the

stranger told his rescuers a pitiful tale of privation, hardships, and

torture, extending over a period of ten years.  How he happened to have

come to Africa he did not tell them, leaving them to assume he had

forgotten the incidents of his life prior to the frightful ordeals that

had wrecked him mentally and physically.  He did not even tell them his

true name, and so they knew him only as Michael Sabrov, nor was there

any resemblance between this sorry wreck and the virile, though

unprincipled, Alexis Paulvitch of old.



It had been ten years since the Russian had escaped the fate of his

friend, the arch-fiend Rokoff, and not once, but many times during

those ten years had Paulvitch cursed the fate that had given to

Nicholas Rokoff death and immunity from suffering while it had meted to

him the hideous terrors of an existence infinitely worse than the death

that persistently refused to claim him.



Paulvitch had taken to the jungle when he had seen the beasts of Tarzan

and their savage lord swarm the deck of the Kincaid, and in his terror

lest Tarzan pursue and capture him he had stumbled on deep into the

jungle, only to fall at last into the hands of one of the savage

cannibal tribes that had felt the weight of Rokoff's evil temper and

cruel brutality.  Some strange whim of the chief of this tribe saved

Paulvitch from death only to plunge him into a life of misery and

torture.  For ten years he had been the butt of the village, beaten and

stoned by the women and children, cut and slashed and disfigured by the

warriors; a victim of often recurring fevers of the most malignant

variety.  Yet he did not die.  Smallpox laid its hideous clutches upon

him; leaving him unspeakably branded with its repulsive marks.  Between

it and the attentions of the tribe the countenance of Alexis Paulvitch

was so altered that his own mother could not have recognized in the

pitiful mask he called his face a single familiar feature.  A few

last.  I go; but I shall return!"  And the son of Tarzan skipped across

the room, slipped through the open window, and slid to liberty by way

of the down spout from an eaves trough.



Mr. Moore wriggled and struggled about the bed.  He was sure that he

should suffocate unless aid came quickly.  In his frenzy of terror he

managed to roll off the bed.  The pain and shock of the fall jolted him

back to something like sane consideration of his plight.  Where before

he had been unable to think intelligently because of the hysterical

fear that had claimed him he now lay quietly searching for some means

of escape from his dilemma.  It finally occurred to him that the room

in which Lord and Lady Greystoke had been sitting when he left them was

directly beneath that in which he lay upon the floor.  He knew that

some time had elapsed since he had come up stairs and that they might

be gone by this time, for it seemed to him that he had struggled about

the bed, in his efforts to free himself, for an eternity.  But the best

that he could do was to attempt to attract attention from below, and

so, after many failures, he managed to work himself into a position in

which he could tap the toe of his boot against the floor.  This he

proceeded to do at short intervals, until, after what seemed a very

long time, he was rewarded by hearing footsteps ascending the stairs,

and presently a knock upon the door.  Mr. Moore tapped vigorously with

his toe--he could not reply in any other way.  The knock was repeated

after a moment's silence.  Again Mr. Moore tapped.  Would they never

open the door!  Laboriously he rolled in the direction of succor.  If

he could get his back against the door he could then tap upon its base,

when surely he must be heard.  The knocking was repeated a little

louder, and finally a voice called:  "Mr. Jack!"



It was one of the house men--Mr. Moore recognized the fellow's voice.

The boy struggled to his feet, assisted by Akut.  For two hours under

the instructions of the former the ape worked upon the knots that

secured his friend's wrists.  Finally they gave up their secret, and

the boy was free.  Then he opened one of his bags and drew forth some

garments.  His plans had been well made.  He did not consult the beast,

which did all that he directed.  Together they slunk from the house,

but no casual observer might have noted that one of them was an ape.









Chapter 4





The killing of the friendless old Russian, Michael Sabrov, by his great

trained ape, was a matter for newspaper comment for a few days.  Lord

Greystoke read of it, and while taking special precautions not to

permit his name to become connected with the affair, kept himself well

posted as to the police search for the anthropoid.



As was true of the general public, his chief interest in the matter

centered about the mysterious disappearance of the slayer.  Or at least

this was true until he learned, several days subsequent to the tragedy,

that his son Jack had not reported at the public school en route for

which they had seen him safely ensconced in a railway carriage.  Even

then the father did not connect the disappearance of his son with the

mystery surrounding the whereabouts of the ape.  Nor was it until a

month later that careful investigation revealed the fact that the boy

had left the train before it pulled out of the station at London, and

the cab driver had been found who had driven him to the address of the

old Russian, that Tarzan of the Apes realized that Akut had in some way

been connected with the disappearance of the boy.



Beyond the moment that the cab driver had deposited his fare beside the

curb in front of the house in which the Russian had been quartered

there was no clue.  No one had seen either the boy or the ape from that

instant--at least no one who still lived.  The proprietor of the house

A month later little Jeanne Jacot, the seven-year-old daughter of

Captain Armand Jacot, mysteriously disappeared.  Neither the wealth of

her father and mother, or all the powerful resources of the great

republic were able to wrest the secret of her whereabouts from the

inscrutable desert that had swallowed her and her abductor.



A reward of such enormous proportions was offered that many adventurers

were attracted to the hunt.  This was no case for the modern detective

of civilization, yet several of these threw themselves into the

search--the bones of some are already bleaching beneath the African sun

upon the silent sands of the Sahara.



Two Swedes, Carl Jenssen and Sven Malbihn, after three years of

following false leads at last gave up the search far to the south of

the Sahara to turn their attention to the more profitable business of

ivory poaching.  In a great district they were already known for their

relentless cruelty and their greed for ivory.  The natives feared and

hated them.  The European governments in whose possessions they worked

had long sought them; but, working their way slowly out of the north

they had learned many things in the no-man's-land south of the Sahara

which gave them immunity from capture through easy avenues of escape

that were unknown to those who pursued them.  Their raids were sudden

and swift.  They seized ivory and retreated into the trackless wastes

of the north before the guardians of the territory they raped could be

made aware of their presence.  Relentlessly they slaughtered elephants

themselves as well as stealing ivory from the natives.  Their following

consisted of a hundred or more renegade Arabs and Negro slaves--a

fierce, relentless band of cut-throats.  Remember them--Carl Jenssen

and Sven Malbihn, yellow-bearded, Swedish giants--for you will meet

them later.





In the heart of the jungle, hidden away upon the banks of a small

unexplored tributary of a large river that empties into the Atlantic

not so far from the equator, lay a small, heavily palisaded village.

Twenty palm-thatched, beehive huts sheltered its black population,

while a half-dozen goat skin tents in the center of the clearing housed

his life.  The pajama trousers had not been heavy; but they had been

much heavier than nothing.  And the next day he roasted in the hot sun,

for again their way led much across wide and treeless plains.



It was still in the boy's mind to travel to the south, and circle back

to the coast in search of another outpost of civilization.  He had said

nothing of this plan to Akut, for he knew that the old ape would look

with displeasure upon any suggestion that savored of separation.



For a month the two wandered on, the boy learning rapidly the laws of

the jungle; his muscles adapting themselves to the new mode of life

that had been thrust upon them.  The thews of the sire had been

transmitted to the son--it needed only the hardening of use to develop

them.  The lad found that it came quite naturally to him to swing

through the trees.  Even at great heights he never felt the slightest

dizziness, and when he had caught the knack of the swing and the

release, he could hurl himself through space from branch to branch with

even greater agility than the heavier Akut.



And with exposure came a toughening and hardening of his smooth, white

skin, browning now beneath the sun and wind.  He had removed his pajama

jacket one day to bathe in a little stream that was too small to harbor

crocodiles, and while he and Akut had been disporting themselves in the

cool waters a monkey had dropped down from the over hanging trees,

snatched up the boy's single remaining article of civilized garmenture,

and scampered away with it.



For a time Jack was angry; but when he had been without the jacket for

a short while he began to realize that being half-clothed is infinitely

more uncomfortable than being entirely naked.  Soon he did not miss his

clothing in the least, and from that he came to revel in the freedom of

his unhampered state.  Occasionally a smile would cross his face as he

tried to imagine the surprise of his schoolmates could they but see him







Chapter 8





A year had passed since the two Swedes had been driven in terror from

the savage country where The Sheik held sway.  Little Meriem still

played with Geeka, lavishing all her childish love upon the now almost

hopeless ruin of what had never, even in its palmiest days, possessed

even a slight degree of loveliness.  But to Meriem, Geeka was all that

was sweet and adorable.  She carried to the deaf ears of the battered

ivory head all her sorrows all her hopes and all her ambitions, for

even in the face of hopelessness, in the clutches of the dread

authority from which there was no escape, little Meriem yet cherished

hopes and ambitions.  It is true that her ambitions were rather

nebulous in form, consisting chiefly of a desire to escape with Geeka

to some remote and unknown spot where there were no Sheiks, no

Mabunus--where El Adrea could find no entrance, and where she might

play all day surrounded only by flowers and birds and the harmless

little monkeys playing in the tree tops.



The Sheik had been away for a long time, conducting a caravan of ivory,

skins, and rubber far into the north.  The interim had been one of

great peace for Meriem.  It is true that Mabunu had still been with

her, to pinch or beat her as the mood seized the villainous old hag;

but Mabunu was only one.  When The Sheik was there also there were two

of them, and The Sheik was stronger and more brutal even than Mabunu.

Little Meriem often wondered why the grim old man hated her so.  It is

true that he was cruel and unjust to all with whom he came in contact,

but to Meriem he reserved his greatest cruelties, his most studied

injustices.



Today Meriem was squatting at the foot of a large tree which grew

inside the palisade close to the edge of the village.  She was

fashioning a tent of leaves for Geeka.  Before the tent were some

pieces of wood and small leaves and a few stones.  These were the

opposite side.  In trooped the motley organization--black slaves and

dark hued Arabs of the northern deserts; cursing camel drivers urging

on their vicious charges; overburdened donkeys, waving sadly pendulous

ears while they endured with stoic patience the brutalities of their

masters; goats, sheep and horses.  Into the village they all trooped

behind a tall, sour, old man, who rode without greetings to those who

shrunk from his path directly to a large goatskin tent in the center of

the village.  Here he spoke to a wrinkled hag.



Korak, from his vantage spot, could see it all.  He saw the old man

asking questions of the black woman, and then he saw the latter point

toward a secluded corner of the village which was hidden from the main

street by the tents of the Arabs and the huts of the natives in the

direction of the tree beneath which the little girl played.  This was

doubtless her father, thought Korak.  He had been away and his first

thought upon returning was of his little daughter.  How glad she would

be to see him!  How she would run and throw herself into his arms, to

be crushed to his breast and covered with his kisses.  Korak sighed.

He thought of his own father and mother far away in London.



He returned to his place in the tree above the girl.  If he couldn't

have happiness of this sort himself he wanted to enjoy the happiness of

others.  Possibly if he made himself known to the old man he might be

permitted to come to the village occasionally as a friend.  It would be

worth trying.  He would wait until the old Arab had greeted his

daughter, then he would make his presence known with signs of peace.



The Arab was striding softly toward the girl.  In a moment he would be

beside her, and then how surprised and delighted she would be!  Korak's

eyes sparkled in anticipation--and now the old man stood behind the

little girl.  His stern old face was still unrelaxed.  The child was

yet unconscious of his presence.  She prattled on to the unresponsive

silently toward her was a huge bull ape that she never before had seen.

Behind him was another like him.



With the agility of a squirrel Meriem was upon her feet and at the same

instant the great bull lunged for her.  Leaping from limb to limb the

girl fled through the jungle while close behind her came the two great

apes.  Above them raced a bevy of screaming, chattering monkeys,

hurling taunts and insults at the Mangani, and encouragement and advice

to the girl.



From tree to tree swung Meriem working ever upward toward the smaller

branches which would not bear the weight of her pursuers.  Faster and

faster came the bull apes after her.  The clutching fingers of the

foremost were almost upon her again and again, but she eluded them by

sudden bursts of speed or reckless chances as she threw herself across

dizzy spaces.



Slowly she was gaining her way to the greater heights where safety lay,

when, after a particularly daring leap, the swaying branch she grasped

bent low beneath her weight, nor whipped upward again as it should have

done.  Even before the rending sound which followed Meriem knew that

she had misjudged the strength of the limb.  It gave slowly at first.

Then there was a ripping as it parted from the trunk.  Releasing her

hold Meriem dropped among the foliage beneath, clutching for a new

support.  She found it a dozen feet below the broken limb.  She had

fallen thus many times before, so that she had no particular terror of

a fall--it was the delay which appalled her most, and rightly, for

scarce had she scrambled to a place of safety than the body of the huge

ape dropped at her side and a great, hairy arm went about her waist.



Almost at once the other ape reached his companion's side.  He made a

lunge at Meriem; but her captor swung her to one side, bared his

fighting fangs and growled ominously.  Meriem struggled to escape.  She

struck at the hairy breast and bearded cheek.  She fastened her strong,

white teeth in one shaggy forearm.  The ape cuffed her viciously across

of baboons could mean naught else than that one or more of their number

had fallen a victim to the allurements of the bait.



The extreme caution of the two men was prompted by former experiences

with the intelligent and doglike creatures with which they had to deal.

More than one trapper has lost his life in battle with enraged baboons

who will hesitate to attack nothing upon one occasion, while upon

another a single gun shot will disperse hundreds of them.



Heretofore the Swedes had always watched near-by their trap, for as a

rule only the stronger bulls are thus caught, since in their greediness

they prevent the weaker from approaching the covered bait, and when

once within the ordinary rude trap woven on the spot of interlaced

branches they are able, with the aid of their friends upon the outside,

to demolish their prison and escape.  But in this instance the trappers

had utilized a special steel cage which could withstand all the

strength and cunning of a baboon.  It was only necessary, therefore, to

drive away the herd which they knew were surrounding the prison and

wait for their boys who were even now following them to the trap.



As they came within sight of the spot they found conditions precisely

as they had expected.  A large male was battering frantically against

the steel wires of the cage that held him captive.  Upon the outside

several hundred other baboons were tearing and tugging in his aid, and

all were roaring and jabbering and barking at the top of their lungs.



But what neither the Swedes nor the baboons saw was the half-naked

figure of a youth hidden in the foliage of a nearby tree.  He had come

upon the scene at almost the same instant as Jenssen and Malbihn, and

was watching the activities of the baboons with every mark of interest.



Korak's relations with the baboons had never been over friendly.  A

species of armed toleration had marked their occasional meetings.  The

baboons and Akut had walked stiff legged and growling past one another,

while Korak had maintained a bared fang neutrality.  So now he was not

Kovudoo scratched his head.  He was much disappointed.  No Sheik meant

no ransom for the white girl.  Now she was worthless, unless he

utilized her for a feast or--a mate.  The latter thought aroused him.

He spat at a small beetle crawling through the dust before him.  He

eyed Malbihn appraisingly.  These white men were peculiar.  They

traveled far from their own villages without women.  Yet he knew they

cared for women.  But how much did they care for them?--that was the

question that disturbed Kovudoo.



"I know where there is a white girl," he said, unexpectedly.  "If you

wish to buy her she may be had cheap."



Malbihn shrugged.  "We have troubles enough, Kovudoo," he said,

"without burdening ourselves with an old she-hyena, and as for paying

for one--"  Malbihn snapped his fingers in derision.



"She is young," said Kovudoo, "and good looking."



The Swedes laughed.  "There are no good looking white women in the

jungle, Kovudoo," said Jenssen.  "You should be ashamed to try to make

fun of old friends."



Kovudoo sprang to his feet.  "Come," he said, "I will show you that she

is all I say."



Malbihn and Jenssen rose to follow him and as they did so their eyes

met, and Malbihn slowly drooped one of his lids in a sly wink.

Together they followed Kovudoo toward his hut.  In the dim interior

they discerned the figure of a woman lying bound upon a sleeping mat.



Malbihn took a single glance and turned away.  "She must be a thousand

years old, Kovudoo," he said, as he left the hut.



"She is young," cried the savage.  "It is dark in here.  You cannot

see.  Wait, I will have her brought out into the sunlight," and he

commanded the two warriors who watched the girl to cut the bonds from

her ankles and lead her forth for inspection.



Malbihn and Jenssen evinced no eagerness, though both were fairly

bursting with it--not to see the girl but to obtain possession of her.

a white man."



"No one will beat you, child," replied the man.  "I have not done so,

have I?  Well, here all belong to me.  They will treat you well.  Here

no one is beaten.  My wife will be very good to you, and at last Korak

will come, for I shall send men to search for him."



The girl shook her head.  "They could not bring him, for he would kill

them, as all men have tried to kill him.  I am afraid.  Let me go,

Bwana."



"You do not know the way to your own country.  You would be lost.  The

leopards or the lions would get you the first night, and after all you

would not find your Korak.  It is better that you stay with us.  Did I

not save you from the bad man?  Do you not owe me something for that?

Well, then remain with us for a few weeks at least until we can

determine what is best for you.  You are only a little girl--it would

be wicked to permit you to go alone into the jungle."



Meriem laughed.  "The jungle," she said, "is my father and my mother.

It has been kinder to me than have men.  I am not afraid of the jungle.

Nor am I afraid of the leopard or the lion.  When my time comes I shall

die.  It may be that a leopard or a lion shall kill me, or it may be a

tiny bug no bigger than the end of my littlest finger.  When the lion

leaps upon me, or the little bug stings me I shall be afraid--oh, then

I shall be terribly afraid, I know; but life would be very miserable

indeed were I to spend it in terror of the thing that has not yet

happened.  If it be the lion my terror shall be short of life; but if

it be the little bug I may suffer for days before I die.  And so I fear

the lion least of all.  He is great and noisy.  I can hear him, or see

instruction with lessons in sewing and deportment, nor once did she let

Meriem guess that it was not all play.  Nor was this difficult, since

the girl was avid to learn.  Then there were pretty dresses to be made

to take the place of the single leopard skin and in this she found the

child as responsive and enthusiastic as any civilized miss of her

acquaintance.



A month passed before the head man returned--a month that had

transformed the savage, half-naked little tarmangani into a daintily

frocked girl of at least outward civilization.  Meriem had progressed

rapidly with the intricacies of the English language, for Bwana and My

Dear had persistently refused to speak Arabic from the time they had

decided that Meriem must learn English, which had been a day or two

after her introduction into their home.



The report of the head man plunged Meriem into a period of despondency,

for he had found the village of Kovudoo deserted nor, search as he

would, could he discover a single native anywhere in the vicinity.  For

some time he had camped near the village, spending the days in a

systematic search of the environs for traces of Meriem's Korak; but in

this quest, too, had he failed.  He had seen neither apes nor ape-man.

Meriem at first insisted upon setting forth herself in search of Korak,

but Bwana prevailed upon her to wait.  He would go himself, he assured

her, as soon as he could find the time, and at last Meriem consented to

abide by his wishes; but it was months before she ceased to mourn

almost hourly for her Korak.



My Dear grieved with the grieving girl and did her best to comfort and

cheer her.  She told her that if Korak lived he would find her; but all

the time she believed that Korak had never existed beyond the child's

dreams.  She planned amusements to distract Meriem's attention from her

sorrow, and she instituted a well-designed campaign to impress upon the

child the desirability of civilized life and customs.  Nor was this

difficult, as she was soon to learn, for it rapidly became evident that

me--until I came to Bwana and My Dear I do not recall that any other

than Korak was ever kind to me."  There was a wistful note in the

girl's voice now and she had forgotten that she was bantering the Hon.

Morison.  She was thinking of Korak.  She had not thought of him a

great deal of late.



For a time both were silently absorbed in their own reflections as they

rode on toward the bungalow of their host.  The girl was thinking of a

god-like figure, a leopard skin half concealing his smooth, brown hide

as he leaped nimbly through the trees to lay an offering of food before

her on his return from a successful hunt.  Behind him, shaggy and

powerful, swung a huge anthropoid ape, while she, Meriem, laughing and

shouting her welcome, swung upon a swaying limb before the entrance to

her sylvan bower.  It was a pretty picture as she recalled it.  The

other side seldom obtruded itself upon her memory--the long, black

nights--the chill, terrible jungle nights--the cold and damp and

discomfort of the rainy season--the hideous mouthings of the savage

carnivora as they prowled through the Stygian darkness beneath--the

constant menace of Sheeta, the panther, and Histah, the snake--the

stinging insects--the loathesome vermin.  For, in truth, all these had

been outweighed by the happiness of the sunny days, the freedom of it

all, and, most, the companionship of Korak.



The man's thoughts were rather jumbled.  He had suddenly realized that

he had come mighty near falling in love with this girl of whom he had

known nothing up to the previous moment when she had voluntarily

revealed a portion of her past to him.  The more he thought upon the

matter the more evident it became to him that he had given her his

love--that he had been upon the verge of offering her his honorable

name.  He trembled a little at the narrowness of his escape.  Yet, he

still loved her.  There was no objection to that according to the

ethics of the Hon. Morison Baynes and his kind.  She was a meaner clay



Now he turned directly toward the spot at which they had entered the

jungle.  He no longer cared whether he was observed or not.  There were

two reasons for his indifference.  The first was that he saw in Baynes'

act a counterpart of his own planned abduction of the girl.  In some

way he might turn the thing to his own purposes.  At least he would

keep in touch with them and make sure that Baynes did not get her.  His

other reason was based on his knowledge of an event that had transpired

at his camp the previous night--an event which he had not mentioned at

the bungalow for fear of drawing undesired attention to his movements

and bringing the blacks of the big Bwana into dangerous intercourse

with his own boys.  He had told at the bungalow that half his men had

deserted.  That story might be quickly disproved should his boys and

Bwana's grow confidential.



The event that he had failed to mention and which now urged him

hurriedly after the girl and her escort had occurred during his absence

early the preceding evening.  His men had been sitting around their

camp fire, entirely encircled by a high, thorn boma, when, without the

slightest warning, a huge lion had leaped amongst them and seized one

of their number.  It had been solely due to the loyalty and courage of

his comrades that his life had been saved, and then only after a battle

royal with the hunger-enraged beast had they been able to drive him off

with burning brands, spears, and rifles.



From this Hanson knew that a man eater had wandered into the district

or been developed by the aging of one of the many lions who ranged the

plains and hills by night, or lay up in the cool wood by day.  He had

heard the roaring of a hungry lion not half an hour before, and there

was little doubt in his mind but that the man eater was stalking Meriem

and Baynes.  He cursed the Englishman for a fool, and spurred rapidly

after them.




Chapter 20





It was still dark when the Hon. Morison Baynes set forth for the

trysting place.  He insisted upon having a guide, saying that he was

not sure that he could find his way back to the little clearing.  As a

matter of fact the thought of that lonely ride through the darkness

before the sun rose had been too much for his courage, and he craved

company.  A black, therefore, preceded him on foot.  Behind and above

him came Korak, whom the noise in the camp had awakened.



It was nine o'clock before Baynes drew rein in the clearing.  Meriem

had not yet arrived.  The black lay down to rest.  Baynes lolled in his

saddle.  Korak stretched himself comfortably upon a lofty limb, where

he could watch those beneath him without being seen.



An hour passed.  Baynes gave evidence of nervousness.  Korak had

already guessed that the young Englishman had come here to meet

another, nor was he at all in doubt as to the identity of that other.

The Killer was perfectly satisfied that he was soon again to see the

nimble she who had so forcefully reminded him of Meriem.



Presently the sound of an approaching horse came to Korak's ears.  She

was coming!  She had almost reached the clearing before Baynes became

aware of her presence, and then as he looked up, the foliage parted to

the head and shoulders of her mount and Meriem rode into view.  Baynes

spurred to meet her.  Korak looked searchingly down upon her, mentally

anathematizing the broad-brimmed hat that hid her features from his

eyes.  She was abreast the Englishman now.  Korak saw the man take both

her hands and draw her close to his breast.  He saw the man's face

concealed for a moment beneath the same broad brim that hid the girl's.

He could imagine their lips meeting, and a twinge of sorrow and sweet

recollection combined to close his eyes for an instant in that

involuntary muscular act with which we attempt to shut out from the

mind's eye harrowing reflections.

country--it would give him far more time to make his escape toward the

West Coast while the Big Bwana was chasing the northern contingent.

Well, he would utilize the man's plans to his own end.  He, too, must

keep out of the clutches of his host.



"You may take the men north as fast as possible," he said to the

head-man.  "I shall return and attempt to lead the Big Bwana to the

west."



The Negro assented with a grunt.  He had no desire to follow this

strange white man who was afraid at night; he had less to remain at the

tender mercies of the Big Bwana's lusty warriors, between whom and his

people there was long-standing blood feud; and he was more than

delighted, into the bargain, for a legitimate excuse for deserting his

much hated Swede master.  He knew a way to the north and his own

country that the white men did not know--a short cut across an arid

plateau where lay water holes of which the white hunters and explorers

that had passed from time to time the fringe of the dry country had

never dreamed.  He might even elude the Big Bwana should he follow

them, and with this thought uppermost in his mind he gathered the

remnants of Malbihn's safari into a semblance of order and moved off

toward the north.  And toward the southwest the black boy led the Hon.

Morison Baynes into the jungles.



Korak had waited about the camp, watching the Hon. Morison until the

safari had started north.  Then, assured that the young Englishman was

going in the wrong direction to meet Meriem he had abandoned him and

returned slowly to the point where he had seen the girl, for whom his

heart yearned, in the arms of another.



So great had been his happiness at seeing Meriem alive that, for the

instant, no thought of jealousy had entered his mind.  Later these

thoughts had come--dark, bloody thoughts that would have made the flesh

of the Hon. Morison creep could he have guessed that they were

revolving in the brain of a savage creature creeping stealthily among

Then he stood waiting, for there was but one canoe and two men--little

danger to him and his followers in that.  Malbihn was puzzled.  Who was

this white man?  He did not recognize him though Baynes' canoe was now

in mid stream and the features of both its occupants plainly

discernible to those on shore.  One of Malbihn's blacks it was who

first recognized his fellow black in the person of Baynes' companion.

Then Malbihn guessed who the white man must be, though he could scarce

believe his own reasoning.  It seemed beyond the pale of wildest

conjecture to suppose that the Hon.  Morison Baynes had followed him

through the jungle with but a single companion--and yet it was true.

Beneath the dirt and dishevelment he recognized him at last, and in the

necessity of admitting that it was he, Malbihn was forced to recognize

the incentive that had driven Baynes, the weakling and coward, through

the savage jungle upon his trail.



The man had come to demand an accounting and to avenge.  It seemed

incredible, and yet there could be no other explanation.  Malbihn

shrugged.  Well, others had sought Malbihn for similar reasons in the

course of a long and checkered career.  He fingered his rifle, and

waited.



Now the canoe was within easy speaking distance of the shore.



"What do you want?" yelled Malbihn, raising his weapon threateningly.



The Hon. Morison Baynes leaped to his feet.



"You, damn you!" he shouted, whipping out his revolver and firing

almost simultaneously with the Swede.



As the two reports rang out Malbihn dropped his rifle, clutched

frantically at his breast, staggered, fell first to his knees and then

lunged upon his face.  Baynes stiffened.  His head flew back

spasmodically.  For an instant he stood thus, and then crumpled very

gently into the bottom of the boat.



The black paddler was at a loss as to what to do.  If Malbihn really

were dead he could continue on to join his fellows without fear; but

should the Swede only be wounded he would be safer upon the far shore.

the death above or the death below.



He felt a soft, warm pad upon the fingers of one of his hands where

they circled the branch to which he clung, and then something reached

down out of the blackness above and dragged him up among the branches

of the tree.









Chapter 24





Sometimes lolling upon Tantor's back, sometimes roaming the jungle in

solitude, Korak made his way slowly toward the West and South.  He made

but a few miles a day, for he had a whole lifetime before him and no

place in particular to go. Possibly he would have moved more rapidly

but for the thought which continually haunted him that each mile he

traversed carried him further and further away from Meriem--no longer

his Meriem, as of yore, it is true! but still as dear to him as ever.



Thus he came upon the trail of The Sheik's band as it traveled down

river from the point where The Sheik had captured Meriem to his own

stockaded village.  Korak pretty well knew who it was that had passed,

for there were few in the great jungle with whom he was not familiar,

though it had been years since he had come this far north.  He had no

particular business, however, with the old Sheik and so he did not

propose following him--the further from men he could stay the better

pleased he would be--he wished that he might never see a human face

again.  Men always brought him sorrow and misery.



The river suggested fishing and so he dawdled upon its shores, catching

fish after a fashion of his own devising and eating them raw.  When

night came he curled up in a great tree beside the stream--the one from

which he had been fishing during the afternoon--and was soon asleep.

Numa, roaring beneath him, awoke him.  He was about to call out in

anger to his noisy neighbor when something else caught his attention.

He listened.  Was there something in the tree beside himself?  Yes, he

heard the noise of something below him trying to clamber upward.

aware of voices raised angrily in the goatskin tent close beside the

hut in which he lay.  One of them was a woman's.  Could it be Meriem's?

The language was probably Arabic--he could not understand a word of it;

but the tones were hers.



He tried to think of some way of attracting her attention to his near

presence.  If she could remove his bonds they might escape together--if

she wished to escape.  That thought bothered him.  He was not sure of

her status in the village.  If she were the petted child of the

powerful Sheik then she would probably not care to escape.  He must

know, definitely.



At the bungalow he had often heard Meriem sing God Save the King, as My

Dear accompanied her on the piano.  Raising his voice he now hummed the

tune.  Immediately he heard Meriem's voice from the tent.  She spoke

rapidly.



"Good bye, Morison," she cried.  "If God is good I shall be dead before

morning, for if I still live I shall be worse than dead after tonight."



Then he heard an angry exclamation in a man's voice, followed by the

sounds of a scuffle.  Baynes went white with horror.  He struggled

frantically again with his bonds.  They were giving.  A moment later

one hand was free.  It was but the work of an instant then to loose the

other.  Stooping, he untied the rope from his ankles, then he

straightened and started for the hut doorway bent on reaching Meriem's

side.  As he stepped out into the night the figure of a huge black rose

and barred his progress.





When speed was required of him Korak depended upon no other muscles

than his own, and so it was that the moment Tantor had landed him

safely upon the same side of the river as lay the village of The Sheik,

the ape-man deserted his bulky comrade and took to the trees in a rapid

race toward the south and the spot where the Swede had told him Meriem

might be.  It was dark when he came to the palisade, strengthened

that the Hon. Morison was worthy of his little Meriem.  Slowly he

turned toward a nearby tree.  Leaping upward he caught a lower branch

and drew himself up among the branches.  His movements were cat-like

and agile.  High into the trees he made his way and there commenced to

divest himself of his clothing. From the game bag slung across one

shoulder he drew a long strip of doe-skin, a neatly coiled rope, and a

wicked looking knife.  The doe-skin, he fashioned into a loin cloth,

the rope he looped over one shoulder, and the knife he thrust into the

belt formed by his gee string.



When he stood erect, his head thrown back and his great chest expanded

a grim smile touched his lips for a moment.  His nostrils dilated as he

sniffed the jungle odors.  His gray eyes narrowed.  He crouched and

leaped to a lower limb and was away through the trees toward the

southeast, bearing away from the river.  He moved swiftly, stopping

only occasionally to raise his voice in a weird and piercing scream,

and to listen for a moment after for a reply.



He had traveled thus for several hours when, ahead of him and a little

to his left, he heard, far off in the jungle, a faint response--the cry

of a bull ape answering his cry.  His nerves tingled and his eyes

lighted as the sound fell upon his ears.  Again he voiced his hideous

call, and sped forward in the new direction.



Korak, finally becoming convinced that he must die if he remained where

he was, waiting for the succor that could not come, spoke to Tantor in

the strange tongue that the great beast understood.  He commanded the

elephant to lift him and carry him toward the northeast.  There,

recently, Korak had seen both white men and black.  If he could come

upon one of the latter it would be a simple matter to command Tantor to

capture the fellow, and then Korak could get him to release him from

the stake.  It was worth trying at least--better than lying there in

