  21  The Flight to the Jungle

  22  Tarzan Recovers His Reason

  23  A Night of Terror

  24  Home









1



Belgian and Arab





Lieutenant Albert Werper had only the prestige of the name he had

dishonored to thank for his narrow escape from being cashiered.  At

first he had been humbly thankful, too, that they had sent him to this

Godforsaken Congo post instead of court-martialing him, as he had so

justly deserved; but now six months of the monotony, the frightful

isolation and the loneliness had wrought a change.  The young man

brooded continually over his fate.  His days were filled with morbid

self-pity, which eventually engendered in his weak and vacillating mind

a hatred for those who had sent him here--for the very men he had at

first inwardly thanked for saving him from the ignominy of degradation.



He regretted the gay life of Brussels as he never had regretted the

sins which had snatched him from that gayest of capitals, and as the

days passed he came to center his resentment upon the representative in

Congo land of the authority which had exiled him--his captain and

immediate superior.



This officer was a cold, taciturn man, inspiring little love in those

directly beneath him, yet respected and feared by the black soldiers of

his little command.



Werper was accustomed to sit for hours glaring at his superior as the

two sat upon the veranda of their common quarters, smoking their

evening cigarets in a silence which neither seemed desirous of

breaking.  The senseless hatred of the lieutenant grew at last into a

form of mania.  The captain's natural taciturnity he distorted into a

studied attempt to insult him because of his past shortcomings.  He

imagined that his superior held him in contempt, and so he chafed and

fumed inwardly until one evening his madness became suddenly homicidal.

He fingered the butt of the revolver at his hip, his eyes narrowed and

his brows contracted.  At last he spoke.




Werper called his head man to him, after writing a long letter to

Achmet Zek.  This letter he handed to the head man.



"Send a runner at once to Achmet Zek with this," he instructed the head

man.  "Remain here in camp awaiting further instructions from him or

from me.  If any come from the bungalow of the Englishman, tell them

that I am very ill within my tent and can see no one.  Now, give me six

porters and six askaris--the strongest and bravest of the safari--and I

will march after the Englishman and discover where his gold is hidden."



And so it was that as Tarzan, stripped to the loin cloth and armed

after the primitive fashion he best loved, led his loyal Waziri toward

the dead city of Opar, Werper, the renegade, haunted his trail through

the long, hot days, and camped close behind him by night.



And as they marched, Achmet Zek rode with his entire following

southward toward the Greystoke farm.



To Tarzan of the Apes the expedition was in the nature of a holiday

outing.  His civilization was at best but an outward veneer which he

gladly peeled off with his uncomfortable European clothes whenever any

reasonable pretext presented itself.  It was a woman's love which kept

Tarzan even to the semblance of civilization--a condition for which

familiarity had bred contempt.  He hated the shams and the hypocrisies

of it and with the clear vision of an unspoiled mind he had penetrated

to the rotten core of the heart of the thing--the cowardly greed for

peace and ease and the safe-guarding of property rights.  That the fine

things of life--art, music and literature--had thriven upon such

enervating ideals he strenuously denied, insisting, rather, that they

had endured in spite of civilization.



"Show me the fat, opulent coward," he was wont to say, "who ever

originated a beautiful ideal.  In the clash of arms, in the battle for

survival, amid hunger and death and danger, in the face of God as

manifested in the display of Nature's most terrific forces, is born all


concealment to undertake a systematic search of his surroundings, in

the hope that he might discover the location of the treasure in ample

time to make his escape before Tarzan returned, for it was the

Belgian's desire merely to locate the gold, that, after Tarzan had

departed, he might come in safety with his followers and carry away as

much as he could transport.



He found the narrow cleft leading downward into the heart of the kopje

along well-worn, granite steps.  He advanced quite to the dark mouth of

the tunnel into which the runway disappeared; but here he halted,

fearing to enter, lest he meet Tarzan returning.



The ape-man, far ahead of him, groped his way along the rocky passage,

until he came to the ancient wooden door.  A moment later he stood

within the treasure chamber, where, ages since, long-dead hands had

ranged the lofty rows of precious ingots for the rulers of that great

continent which now lies submerged beneath the waters of the Atlantic.



No sound broke the stillness of the subterranean vault.  There was no

evidence that another had discovered the forgotten wealth since last

the ape-man had visited its hiding place.



Satisfied, Tarzan turned and retraced his steps toward the summit of

the kopje.  Werper, from the concealment of a jutting, granite

shoulder, watched him pass up from the shadows of the stairway and

advance toward the edge of the hill which faced the rim of the valley

where the Waziri awaited the signal of their master.  Then Werper,

slipping stealthily from his hiding place, dropped into the somber

darkness of the entrance and disappeared.



Tarzan, halting upon the kopje's edge, raised his voice in the

thunderous roar of a lion.  Twice, at regular intervals, he repeated

the call, standing in attentive silence for several minutes after the

echoes of the third call had died away.  And then, from far across the

valley, faintly, came an answering roar--once, twice, thrice.  Basuli,

the Waziri chieftain, had heard and replied.



Tarzan again made his way toward the treasure vault, knowing that in a

few hours his blacks would be with him, ready to bear away another




After their first terror had subsided subsequent to the shock of the

earthquake, Basuli and his warriors hastened back into the passageway

in search of Tarzan and two of their own number who were also missing.



They found the way blocked by jammed and distorted rock.  For two days

they labored to tear a way through to their imprisoned friends; but

when, after Herculean efforts, they had unearthed but a few yards of

the choked passage, and discovered the mangled remains of one of their

fellows they were forced to the conclusion that Tarzan and the second

Waziri also lay dead beneath the rock mass farther in, beyond human

aid, and no longer susceptible of it.



Again and again as they labored they called aloud the names of their

master and their comrade; but no answering call rewarded their

listening ears.  At last they gave up the search.  Tearfully they cast

a last look at the shattered tomb of their master, shouldered the heavy

burden of gold that would at least furnish comfort, if not happiness,

to their bereaved and beloved mistress, and made their mournful way

back across the desolate valley of Opar, and downward through the

forests beyond toward the distant bungalow.



And as they marched what sorry fate was already drawing down upon that

peaceful, happy home!



From the north came Achmet Zek, riding to the summons of his

lieutenant's letter.  With him came his horde of renegade Arabs,

outlawed marauders, these, and equally degraded blacks, garnered from

the more debased and ignorant tribes of savage cannibals through whose

countries the raider passed to and fro with perfect impunity.



Mugambi, the ebon Hercules, who had shared the dangers and vicissitudes

of his beloved Bwana, from Jungle Island, almost to the headwaters of

the Ugambi, was the first to note the bold approach of the sinister

caravan.



He it was whom Tarzan had left in charge of the warriors who remained

to guard Lady Greystoke, nor could a braver or more loyal guardian have

been found in any clime or upon any soil.  A giant in stature, a

of himself.  There was a tantalizing suggestion always present in his

mind that something was eluding him--that he should know many things

which he did not know.



His earnest cogitation was rudely interrupted by a thunderous roar from

the opening above him.  Following the roar came the cries and screams

of men and women.  Tarzan grasped his spear more firmly and ascended

the steps.  A strange sight met his eyes as he emerged from the

semi-darkness of the cellar to the brilliant light of the temple.



The creatures he saw before him he recognized for what they were--men

and women, and a huge lion.  The men and women were scuttling for the

safety of the exits.  The lion stood upon the body of one who had been

less fortunate than the others.  He was in the center of the temple.

Directly before Tarzan, a woman stood beside a block of stone.  Upon

the top of the stone lay stretched a man, and as the ape-man watched

the scene, he saw the lion glare terribly at the two who remained

within the temple.  Another thunderous roar broke from the savage

throat, the woman screamed and swooned across the body of the man

stretched prostrate upon the stone altar before her.



The lion advanced a few steps and crouched.  The tip of his sinuous

tail twitched nervously.  He was upon the point of charging when his

eyes were attracted toward the ape-man.



Werper, helpless upon the altar, saw the great carnivore preparing to

leap upon him.  He saw the sudden change in the beast's expression as

his eyes wandered to something beyond the altar and out of the

Belgian's view.  He saw the formidable creature rise to a standing

position.  A figure darted past Werper.  He saw a mighty arm upraised,

and a stout spear shoot forward toward the lion, to bury itself in the

broad chest.



He saw the lion snapping and tearing at the weapon's shaft, and he saw,

wonder of wonders, the naked giant who had hurled the missile charging

upon the great beast, only a long knife ready to meet those ferocious


possession.  When he killed he shared the meat with Werper; but had

Werper ever, by accident, laid a hand upon Tarzan's share, he would

have aroused the same savage, and resentful warning.



From that occurrence dated the beginning of a great fear in the breast

of the Belgian for his savage companion.  He had never understood the

transformation that had been wrought in Tarzan by the blow upon his

head, other than to attribute it to a form of amnesia.  That Tarzan had

once been, in truth, a savage, jungle beast, Werper had not known, and

so, of course, he could not guess that the man had reverted to the

state in which his childhood and young manhood had been spent.



Now Werper saw in the Englishman a dangerous maniac, whom the slightest

untoward accident might turn upon him with rending fangs.  Not for a

moment did Werper attempt to delude himself into the belief that he

could defend himself successfully against an attack by the ape-man.

His one hope lay in eluding him, and making for the far distant camp of

Achmet Zek as rapidly as he could; but armed only with the sacrificial

knife, Werper shrank from attempting the journey through the jungle.

Tarzan constituted a protection that was by no means despicable, even

in the face of the larger carnivora, as Werper had reason to

acknowledge from the evidence he had witnessed in the Oparian temple.



Too, Werper had his covetous soul set upon the pouch of gems, and so he

was torn between the various emotions of avarice and fear.  But avarice

it was that burned most strongly in his breast, to the end that he

dared the dangers and suffered the terrors of constant association with

him he thought a mad man, rather than give up the hope of obtaining

possession of the fortune which the contents of the little pouch

represented.



Achmet Zek should know nothing of these--these would be for Werper

alone, and so soon as he could encompass his design he would reach the

coast and take passage for America, where he could conceal himself

beneath the veil of a new identity and enjoy to some measure the fruits

Achmet Zek.  The Arab arose as his lieutenant entered.  His face showed

surprise as he viewed the tattered apparel of the Belgian.



"What has happened?" he asked.



Werper narrated all, save the little matter of the pouch of gems which

were now tightly strapped about his waist, beneath his clothing.  The

Arab's eyes narrowed greedily as his henchman described the treasure

that the Waziri had buried beside the ruins of the Greystoke bungalow.



"It will be a simple matter now to return and get it," said Achmet Zek.

"First we will await the coming of the rash Waziri, and after we have

slain them we may take our time to the treasure--none will disturb it

where it lies, for we shall leave none alive who knows of its existence.



"And the woman?" asked Werper.



"I shall sell her in the north," replied the raider.  "It is the only

way, now.  She should bring a good price."



The Belgian nodded.  He was thinking rapidly.  If he could persuade

Achmet Zek to send him in command of the party which took Lady

Greystoke north it would give him the opportunity he craved to make his

escape from his chief.  He would forego a share of the gold, if he

could but get away unscathed with the jewels.



He knew Achmet Zek well enough by this time to know that no member of

his band ever was voluntarily released from the service of Achmet Zek.

Most of the few who deserted were recaptured.  More than once had

Werper listened to their agonized screams as they were tortured before

being put to death.  The Belgian had no wish to take the slightest

chance of recapture.



"Who will go north with the woman," he asked, "while we are returning

for the gold that the Waziri buried by the bungalow of the Englishman?"



Achmet Zek thought for a moment.  The buried gold was of much greater

value than the price the woman would bring.  It was necessary to rid

himself of her as quickly as possible and it was also well to obtain


Attracted by the shrill screams of the mare, a pair of hyenas slunk

presently into view.  They trotted to a point a few yards from the

gorging ape-man, and halted.  Tarzan looked up, bared his fighting

fangs and growled.  The hyenas returned the compliment, and withdrew a

couple of paces.  They made no move to attack; but continued to sit at

a respectful distance until Tarzan had concluded his meal.  After the

ape-man had cut a few strips from the carcass to carry with him, he

walked slowly off in the direction of the river to quench his thirst.

His way lay directly toward the hyenas, nor did he alter his course

because of them.



With all the lordly majesty of Numa, the lion, he strode straight

toward the growling beasts.  For a moment they held their ground,

bristling and defiant; but only for a moment, and then slunk away to

one side while the indifferent ape-man passed them on his lordly way.

A moment later they were tearing at the remains of the zebra.



Back to the reeds went Tarzan, and through them toward the river.  A

herd of buffalo, startled by his approach, rose ready to charge or to

fly.  A great bull pawed the ground and bellowed as his bloodshot eyes

discovered the intruder; but the ape-man passed across their front as

though ignorant of their existence.  The bull's bellowing lessened to a

low rumbling, he turned and scraped a horde of flies from his side with

his muzzle, cast a final glance at the ape-man and resumed his feeding.

His numerous family either followed his example or stood gazing after

Tarzan in mild-eyed curiosity, until the opposite reeds swallowed him

from view.



At the river, Tarzan drank his fill and bathed.  During the heat of the

day he lay up under the shade of a tree near the ruins of his burned

barns.  His eyes wandered out across the plain toward the forest, and a

longing for the pleasures of its mysterious depths possessed his

thoughts for a considerable time.  With the next sun he would cross the



And La?  She fingered her knife and looked down upon her captive.  She

glared and muttered but she did not strike.  "Tonight!" she thought.

"Tonight, when it is dark I will torture him." She looked upon his

perfect, godlike figure and upon his handsome, smiling face and then

she steeled her heart again by thoughts of her love spurned; by

religious thoughts that damned the infidel who had desecrated the holy

of holies; who had taken from the blood-stained altar of Opar the

offering to the Flaming God--and not once but thrice.  Three times had

Tarzan cheated the god of her fathers.  At the thought La paused and

knelt at his side.  In her hand was a sharp knife.  She placed its

point against the ape-man's side and pressed upon the hilt; but Tarzan

only smiled and shrugged his shoulders.



How beautiful he was!  La bent low over him, looking into his eyes.

How perfect was his figure.  She compared it with those of the knurled

and knotted men from whom she must choose a mate, and La shuddered at

the thought.  Dusk came and after dusk came night.  A great fire blazed

within the little thorn boma about the camp.  The flames played upon

the new altar erected in the center of the clearing, arousing in the

mind of the High Priestess of the Flaming God a picture of the event of

the coming dawn.  She saw this giant and perfect form writhing amid the

flames of the burning pyre.  She saw those smiling lips, burned and

blackened, falling away from the strong, white teeth.  She saw the

shock of black hair tousled upon Tarzan's well-shaped head disappear in

a spurt of flame.  She saw these and many other frightful pictures as

she stood with closed eyes and clenched fists above the object of her

hate--ah!  was it hate that La of Opar felt?



The darkness of the jungle night had settled down upon the camp,

relieved only by the fitful flarings of the fire that was kept up to

warn off the man-eaters.  Tarzan lay quietly in his bonds.  He suffered


our queen."



"You are many against one," spoke up Tarzan.  "Why should you not have

your will?  Go your way with La to Opar and if Cadj interferes slay

him."



The priests of Opar welcomed this suggestion with loud cries of

approval.  To them it appeared nothing short of divine inspiration.

The influence of ages of unquestioning obedience to high priests had

made it seem impossible to them to question his authority; but when

they realized that they could force him to their will they were as

happy as children with new toys.



They rushed forward and seized Cadj.  They talked in loud menacing

tones into his ear.  They threatened him with bludgeon and knife until

at last he acquiesced in their demands, though sullenly, and then

Tarzan stepped close before Cadj.



"Priest," he said, "La goes back to her temple under the protection of

her priests and the threat of Tarzan of the Apes that whoever harms her

shall die.  Tarzan will go again to Opar before the next rains and if

harm has befallen La, woe betide Cadj, the High Priest."



Sullenly Cadj promised not to harm his queen.



"Protect her," cried Tarzan to the other Oparians.  "Protect her so

that when Tarzan comes again he will find La there to greet him."



"La will be there to greet thee," exclaimed the High Priestess, "and La

will wait, longing, always longing, until you come again.  Oh, tell me

that you will come!"



"Who knows?" asked the ape-man as he swung quickly into the trees and

raced off toward the east.



For a moment La stood looking after him, then her head drooped, a sigh

escaped her lips and like an old woman she took up the march toward

distant Opar.



Through the trees raced Tarzan of the Apes until the darkness of night

had settled upon the jungle, then he lay down and slept, with no

thought beyond the morrow and with even La but the shadow of a memory

within his consciousness.



But a few marches to the north Lady Greystoke looked forward to the day

and his heart all but ceased its beating as he awaited the result of

this interruption.  At a walk the horseman approached.  Would the

nervous animal he rode take fright at the odor of the carnivore, and,

bolting, leave Werper still to the mercies of the king of beasts?



But he seemed unmindful of the near presence of the great cat.  On he

came, his neck arched, champing at the bit between his teeth.  The

Belgian turned his eyes again toward the lion.  The beast's whole

attention now seemed riveted upon the horseman.  They were abreast the

lion now, and still the brute did not spring.  Could he be but waiting

for them to pass before returning his attention to the original prey?

Werper shuddered and half rose.  At the same instant the lion sprang

from his place of concealment, full upon the mounted man.  The horse,

with a shrill neigh of terror, shrank sideways almost upon the Belgian,

the lion dragged the helpless Arab from his saddle, and the horse

leaped back into the trail and fled away toward the west.



But he did not flee alone.  As the frightened beast had pressed in upon

him, Werper had not been slow to note the quickly emptied saddle and

the opportunity it presented. Scarcely had the lion dragged the Arab

down from one side, than the Belgian, seizing the pommel of the saddle

and the horse's mane, leaped upon the horse's back from the other.



A half hour later a naked giant, swinging easily through the lower

branches of the trees, paused, and with raised head, and dilating

nostrils sniffed the morning air.  The smell of blood fell strong upon

his senses, and mingled with it was the scent of Numa, the lion.  The

giant cocked his head upon one side and listened.



From a short distance up the trail came the unmistakable noises of the

greedy feeding of a lion.  The crunching of bones, the gulping of great

pieces, the contented growling, all attested the nearness of the king

at table.



Tarzan approached the spot, still keeping to the branches of the trees.


fortune in scintillating gems which had aroused the cupidity of his

chief and placed the sentence of death upon the head of the lieutenant.



With the escape of the Arabs the great apes had turned their attention

to their fallen comrades.  One was dead, but another and the great

white ape still breathed.  The hairy monsters gathered about these two,

grumbling and muttering after the fashion of their kind.



Tarzan was the first to regain consciousness.  Sitting up, he looked

about him.  Blood was flowing from a wound in his shoulder.  The shock

had thrown him down and dazed him; but he was far from dead.  Rising

slowly to his feet he let his eyes wander toward the spot where last he

had seen the she, who had aroused within his savage breast such strange

emotions.



"Where is she?" he asked.



"The Tarmangani took her away," replied one of the apes.  "Who are you

who speak the language of the Mangani?"



"I am Tarzan," replied the ape-man; "mighty hunter, greatest of

fighters.  When I roar, the jungle is silent and trembles with terror.

I am Tarzan of the Apes.  I have been away; but now I have come back to

my people."



"Yes," spoke up an old ape, "he is Tarzan.  I know him.  It is well

that he has come back.  Now we shall have good hunting."



The other apes came closer and sniffed at the ape-man.  Tarzan stood

very still, his fangs half bared, and his muscles tense and ready for

action; but there was none there to question his right to be with them,

and presently, the inspection satisfactorily concluded, the apes again

returned their attention to the other survivor.



He too was but slightly wounded, a bullet, grazing his skull, having

stunned him, so that when he regained consciousness he was apparently

as fit as ever.



The apes told Tarzan that they had been traveling toward the east when

the scent spoor of the she had attracted them and they had stalked her.


"I know where it is hid," said Werper.  "Promise, and I will lead you

to it--if ten loads is enough?"



Abdul Mourak had ceased to laugh.  He was eyeing the Belgian intently.

The fellow seemed sane enough--yet ten loads of gold!  It was

preposterous.  The Abyssinian thought in silence for a moment.



"Well, and if I promise," he said.  "How far is this gold?"



"A long week's march to the south," replied Werper.



"And if we do not find it where you say it is, do you realize what your

punishment will be?"



"If it is not there I will forfeit my life," replied the Belgian.  "I

know it is there, for I saw it buried with my own eyes.  And

more--there are not only ten loads, but as many as fifty men may carry.

It is all yours if you will promise to see me safely delivered into the

protection of the English."



"You will stake your life against the finding of the gold?" asked Abdul.



Werper assented with a nod.



"Very well," said the Abyssinian, "I promise, and even if there be but

five loads you shall have your freedom; but until the gold is in my

possession you remain a prisoner."



"I am satisfied," said Werper.  "Tomorrow we start?"



Abdul Mourak nodded, and the Belgian returned to his guards.  The

following day the Abyssinian soldiers were surprised to receive an

order which turned their faces from the northeast to the south.  And so

it happened that upon the very night that Tarzan and the two apes

entered the village of the raiders, the Abyssinians camped but a few

miles to the east of the same spot.



While Werper dreamed of freedom and the unmolested enjoyment of the

fortune in his stolen pouch, and Abdul Mourak lay awake in greedy

contemplation of the fifty loads of gold which lay but a few days

farther to the south of him, Achmet Zek gave orders to his lieutenants

that they should prepare a force of fighting men and carriers to


taking advantage of such cover as the ground afforded.



Beside a charred pile of timbers the Abyssinians halted, and Tarzan,

sneaking close and concealing himself in nearby shrubbery, watched them

in wonderment.  He saw them digging up the earth, and he wondered if

they had hidden meat there in the past and now had come for it.  Then

he recalled how he had buried his pretty pebbles, and the suggestion

that had caused him to do it.  They were digging for the things the

blacks had buried here!



Presently he saw them uncover a dirty, yellow object, and he witnessed

the joy of Werper and of Abdul Mourak as the grimy object was exposed

to view.  One by one they unearthed many similar pieces, all of the

same uniform, dirty yellow, until a pile of them lay upon the ground, a

pile which Abdul Mourak fondled and petted in an ecstasy of greed.



Something stirred in the ape-man's mind as he looked long upon the

golden ingots.  Where had he seen such before?  What were they?  Why

did these Tarmangani covet them so greatly?  To whom did they belong?



He recalled the black men who had buried them.  The things must be

theirs.  Werper was stealing them as he had stolen Tarzan's pouch of

pebbles.  The ape-man's eyes blazed in anger.  He would like to find

the black men and lead them against these thieves.  He wondered where

their village might be.



As all these things ran through the active mind, a party of men moved

out of the forest at the edge of the plain and advanced toward the

ruins of the burned bungalow.



Abdul Mourak, always watchful, was the first to see them, but already

they were halfway across the open.  He called to his men to mount and

hold themselves in readiness, for in the heart of Africa who may know

whether a strange host be friend or foe?



Werper, swinging into his saddle, fastened his eyes upon the newcomers,

then, white and trembling he turned toward Abdul Mourak.



It was with growing difficulty that he found the strength necessary to

construct a shelter by night wherein he might be reasonably safe from

the large carnivora, and by day he still further exhausted his strength

in digging for edible roots, and searching for water.



A few stagnant pools at considerable distances apart saved him from

death by thirst; but his was a pitiable state when finally he stumbled

by accident upon a large river in a country where fruit was abundant,

and small game which he might bag by means of a combination of stealth,

cunning, and a crude knob-stick which he had fashioned from a fallen

limb.



Realizing that he still had a long march ahead of him before he could

reach even the outskirts of the Waziri country, Mugambi wisely decided

to remain where he was until he had recuperated his strength and

health.  A few days' rest would accomplish wonders for him, he knew,

and he could ill afford to sacrifice his chances for a safe return by

setting forth handicapped by weakness.



And so it was that he constructed a substantial thorn boma, and rigged

a thatched shelter within it, where he might sleep by night in

security, and from which he sallied forth by day to hunt the flesh

which alone could return to his giant thews their normal prowess.



One day, as he hunted, a pair of savage eyes discovered him from the

concealment of the branches of a great tree beneath which the black

warrior passed.  Bloodshot, wicked eyes they were, set in a fierce and

hairy face.



They watched Mugambi make his little kill of a small rodent, and they

followed him as he returned to his hut, their owner moving quietly

through the trees upon the trail of the Negro.



The creature was Chulk, and he looked down upon the unconscious man

more in curiosity than in hate.  The wearing of the Arab burnoose which

Tarzan had placed upon his person had aroused in the mind of the

anthropoid a desire for similar mimicry of the Tarmangani.  The

burnoose, though, had obstructed his movements and proven such a


to his hiding place.



Scarcely had Frecoult hidden himself than the figure of a white-robed

Arab crept silently along the trail in pursuit.  From her hiding place,

Jane Clayton could see both men plainly.  She recognized Achmet Zek as

the leader of the band of ruffians who had raided her home and made her

a prisoner, and as she saw Frecoult, the supposed friend and ally,

raise his gun and take careful aim at the Arab, her heart stood still

and every power of her soul was directed upon a fervent prayer for the

accuracy of his aim.



Achmet Zek paused in the middle of the trail.  His keen eyes scanned

every bush and tree within the radius of his vision.  His tall figure

presented a perfect target to the perfidious assassin.  There was a

sharp report, and a little puff of smoke arose from the bush that hid

the Belgian, as Achmet Zek stumbled forward and pitched, face down,

upon the trail.



As Werper stepped back into the trail, he was startled by the sound of

a glad cry from above him, and as he wheeled about to discover the

author of this unexpected interruption, he saw Jane Clayton drop

lightly from a nearby tree and run forward with outstretched hands to

congratulate him upon his victory.









20



Jane Clayton Again a Prisoner





Though her clothes were torn and her hair disheveled, Albert Werper

realized that he never before had looked upon such a vision of

loveliness as that which Lady Greystoke presented in the relief and joy

which she felt in coming so unexpectedly upon a friend and rescuer when

hope had seemed so far away.



If the Belgian had entertained any doubts as to the woman's knowledge

of his part in the perfidious attack upon her home and herself, it was

quickly dissipated by the genuine friendliness of her greeting.  She

told him quickly of all that had befallen her since he had departed

from her home, and as she spoke of the death of her husband her eyes

act of the man upon whom she had been looking as her sole protector in

the midst of a world of enemies and dangers.



On the march a separate tent had been provided for the captive, and at

night it was pitched between those of Mohammed Beyd and Werper.  A

sentry was posted at the front and another at the back, and with these

precautions it had not been thought necessary to confine the prisoner

to bonds.  The evening following her interview with Mohammed Beyd, Jane

Clayton sat for some time at the opening of her tent watching the rough

activities of the camp.  She had eaten the meal that had been brought

her by Mohammed Beyd's Negro slave--a meal of cassava cakes and a

nondescript stew in which a new-killed monkey, a couple of squirrels

and the remains of a zebra, slain the previous day, were impartially

and unsavorily combined; but the one-time Baltimore belle had long

since submerged in the stern battle for existence, an estheticism which

formerly revolted at much slighter provocation.



As the girl's eyes wandered across the trampled jungle clearing,

already squalid from the presence of man, she no longer apprehended

either the nearer objects of the foreground, the uncouth men laughing

or quarreling among themselves, or the jungle beyond, which

circumscribed the extreme range of her material vision.  Her gaze

passed through all these, unseeing, to center itself upon a distant

bungalow and scenes of happy security which brought to her eyes tears

of mingled joy and sorrow.  She saw a tall, broad-shouldered man riding

in from distant fields; she saw herself waiting to greet him with an

armful of fresh-cut roses from the bushes which flanked the little

rustic gate before her.  All this was gone, vanished into the past,

wiped out by the torches and bullets and hatred of these hideous and

degenerate men.  With a stifled sob, and a little shudder, Jane Clayton

turned back into her tent and sought the pile of unclean blankets which

were her bed.  Throwing herself face downward upon them she sobbed

forth her misery until kindly sleep brought her, at least temporary,



the prisoner's tent from that of the dead man.  Behind the silken wall

he halted and lowered his burden to the ground, and there he remained

motionless for several minutes, listening.



Satisfied, at last, that no one had seen him, he stooped and raised the

bottom of the tent wall, backed in and dragged the thing that had been

Mohammed Beyd after him.  To the sleeping rugs of the dead raider he

drew the corpse, then he fumbled about in the darkness until he had

found Mohammed Beyd's revolver.  With the weapon in his hand he

returned to the side of the dead man, kneeled beside the bedding, and

inserted his right hand with the weapon beneath the rugs, piled a

number of thicknesses of the closely woven fabric over and about the

revolver with his left hand.  Then he pulled the trigger, and at the

same time he coughed.



The muffled report could not have been heard above the sound of his

cough by one directly outside the tent.  Werper was satisfied.  A grim

smile touched his lips as he withdrew the weapon from the rugs and

placed it carefully in the right hand of the dead man, fixing three of

the fingers around the grip and the index finger inside the trigger

guard.



A moment longer he tarried to rearrange the disordered rugs, and then

he left as he had entered, fastening down the rear wall of the tent as

it had been before he had raised it.



Going to the tent of the prisoner he removed there also the evidence

that someone might have come or gone beneath the rear wall.  Then he

returned to his own tent, entered, fastened down the canvas, and

crawled into his blankets.



The following morning he was awakened by the excited voice of Mohammed

Beyd's slave calling to him at the entrance of his tent.



"Quick!  Quick!" cried the black in a frightened tone.  "Come!

Mohammed Beyd is dead in his tent--dead by his own hand."



Werper sat up quickly in his blankets at the first alarm, a startled



"When I am through with him," replied Tarzan, quietly.



The officer turned and beckoned to the soldiers standing in the trail

behind him.  A company of uniformed blacks stepped quickly forward and

pushing past the three, surrounded the ape-man and his captive.



"Both the law and the power to enforce it are upon my side," announced

the officer.  "Let us have no trouble.  If you have a grievance against

this man you may return with me and enter your charge regularly before

an authorized tribunal."



"Your legal rights are not above suspicion, my friend," replied Tarzan,

"and your power to enforce your commands are only apparent--not real.

You have presumed to enter British territory with an armed force.

Where is your authority for this invasion?  Where are the extradition

papers which warrant the arrest of this man?  And what assurance have

you that I cannot bring an armed force about you that will prevent your

return to the Congo Free State?"



The Belgian lost his temper.  "I have no disposition to argue with a

naked savage," he cried.  "Unless you wish to be hurt you will not

interfere with me.  Take the prisoner, Sergeant!"



Werper raised his lips close to Tarzan's ear.  "Keep me from them, and

I can show you the very spot where I saw your wife last night," he

whispered.  "She cannot be far from here at this very minute."



The soldiers, following the signal from their sergeant, closed in to

seize Werper.  Tarzan grabbed the Belgian about the waist, and bearing

him beneath his arm as he might have borne a sack of flour, leaped

forward in an attempt to break through the cordon.  His right fist

caught the nearest soldier upon the jaw and sent him hurtling backward

upon his fellows.  Clubbed rifles were torn from the hands of those who

barred his way, and right and left the black soldiers stumbled aside in

the face of the ape-man's savage break for liberty.



So completely did the blacks surround the two that they dared not fire





By dint of threats, reproaches and profanity the Belgian officer

succeeded in persuading his trembling command to fire a volley after

the retreating apes.  A ragged, straggling volley it was, but at least

one of its bullets found a mark, for as the jungle closed about the

hairy rescuers, Chulk, who bore Werper across one broad shoulder,

staggered and fell.



In an instant he was up again; but the Belgian guessed from his

unsteady gait that he was hard hit.  He lagged far behind the others,

and it was several minutes after they had halted at Tarzan's command

before he came slowly up to them, reeling from side to side, and at

last falling again beneath the weight of his burden and the shock of

his wound.



As Chulk went down he dropped Werper, so that the latter fell face

downward with the body of the ape lying half across him.  In this

position the Belgian felt something resting against his hands, which

were still bound at his back--something that was not a part of the

hairy body of the ape.



Mechanically the man's fingers felt of the object resting almost in

their grasp--it was a soft pouch, filled with small, hard particles.

Werper gasped in wonderment as recognition filtered through the

incredulity of his mind.  It was impossible, and yet--it was true!



Feverishly he strove to remove the pouch from the ape and transfer it

to his own possession; but the restricted radius to which his bonds

held his hands prevented this, though he did succeed in tucking the

pouch with its precious contents inside the waist band of his trousers.



Tarzan, sitting at a short distance, was busy with the remaining knots

of the cords which bound him.  Presently he flung aside the last of

them and rose to his feet.  Approaching Werper he knelt beside him.

For a moment he examined the ape.



"Quite dead," he announced.  "It is too bad--he was a splendid

creature," and then he turned to the work of liberating the Belgian.



He freed his hands first, and then commenced upon the knots at his

