add another film to what had been burying the city for the last fifty

thousand years.



The red loess lay over everything, covering the streets and the open

spaces of park and plaza, hiding the small houses that had been crushed

and pressed flat under it and the rubble that had come down from the

tall buildings when roofs had caved in and walls had toppled outward.

Here, where she stood, the ancient streets were a hundred to a hundred

and fifty feet below the surface; the breach they had made in the wall

of the building behind her had opened into the sixth story. She could

look down on the cluster of prefabricated huts and sheds, on the

brush-grown flat that had been the waterfront when this place had been a

seaport on the ocean that was now Syrtis Depression; already, the bright

metal was thinly coated with red dust. She thought, again, of what

clearing this city would mean, in terms of time and labor, of people and

supplies and equipment brought across fifty million miles of space.

They'd have to use machinery; there was no other way it could be done.

Bulldozers and power shovels and draglines; they were fast, but they

were rough and indiscriminate. She remembered the digs around Harappa

and Mohenjo-Daro, in the Indus Valley, and the careful, patient native

laborers--the painstaking foremen, the pickmen and spademen, the long

files of basketmen carrying away the earth. Slow and primitive as the

civilization whose ruins they were uncovering, yes, but she could count

on the fingers of one hand the times one of her pickmen had damaged a

valuable object in the ground. If it hadn't been for the underpaid and

uncomplaining native laborer, archaeology would still be back where

Wincklemann had found it. But on Mars there was no native labor; the

last Martian had died five hundred centuries ago.



Something started banging like a machine gun, four or five hundred yards

to her left. A solenoid jack-hammer; Tony Lattimer must have decided

which building he wanted to break into next. She became conscious, then,

of the awkward weight of her equipment, and began redistributing it,

shifting the straps of her oxy-tank pack, slinging the camera from one




"It will, some day. Look how long it took to read Egyptian

hieroglyphics, even after they had the Rosetta Stone."



Sachiko smiled. "Yes. I know. But they did have the Rosetta Stone."



"And we don't. There is no Rosetta Stone, not anywhere on Mars. A whole

race, a whole species, died while the first Crò-Magnon cave-artist was

daubing pictures of reindeer and bison, and across fifty thousand years

and fifty million miles there was no bridge of understanding.



"We'll find one. There must be something, somewhere, that will give us

the meaning of a few words, and we'll use them to pry meaning out of

more words, and so on. We may not live to learn this language, but we'll

make a start, and some day somebody will."



Sachiko took her hands from her eyes, being careful not to look toward

the unshaded light, and smiled again. This time Martha was sure that it

was not the Japanese smile of politeness, but the universally human

smile of friendship.



"I hope so, Martha: really I do. It would be wonderful for you to be the

first to do it, and it would be wonderful for all of us to be able to

read what these people wrote. It would really bring this dead city to

life again." The smile faded slowly. "But it seems so hopeless."



"You haven't found any more pictures?"



Sachiko shook her head. Not that it would have meant much if she had.

They had found hundreds of pictures with captions; they had never been

able to establish a positive relationship between any pictured object

and any printed word. Neither of them said anything more, and after a

moment Sachiko replaced the loup and bent her head forward over the

book.



       *       *       *       *       *



Selim von Ohlmhorst looked up from his notebook, taking his pipe out of

his mouth.



"Everything finished, over there?" he asked, releasing a puff of smoke.



       *       *       *       *       *



Photographs, and photostats of restored pages of books, and transcripts

of inscriptions, were piled in front of her, and the notebooks in which

she was compiling her lists. She sat down, lighting a fresh cigarette,

and reached over to a stack of unexamined material, taking off the top

sheet. It was a photostat of what looked like the title page and

contents of some sort of a periodical. She remembered it; she had found

it herself, two days before, in a closet in the basement of the building

she had just finished examining.



She sat for a moment, looking at it. It was readable, in the sense that

she had set up a purely arbitrary but consistently pronounceable system

of phonetic values for the letters. The long vertical symbols were

vowels. There were only ten of them; not too many, allowing separate

characters for long and short sounds. There were twenty of the short

horizontal letters, which meant that sounds like -ng or -ch or -sh were

single letters. The odds were millions to one against her system being

anything like the original sound of the language, but she had listed

several thousand Martian words, and she could pronounce all of them.



And that was as far as it went. She could pronounce between three and

four thousand Martian words, and she couldn't assign a meaning to one of

them. Selim von Ohlmhorst believed that she never would. So did Tony

Lattimer, and he was a great deal less reticent about saying so. So, she

was sure, did Sachiko Koremitsu. There were times, now and then, when

she began to be afraid that they were right.



The letters on the page in front of her began squirming and dancing,

slender vowels with fat little consonants. They did that, now, every

night in her dreams. And there were other dreams, in which she read them

as easily as English; waking, she would try desperately and vainly to



The next page was the beginning of the first article listed; many of the

words were unfamiliar. She had the impression that this must be some

kind of scientific or technical journal; that could be because such

publications made up the bulk of her own periodical reading. She doubted

if it were fiction; the paragraphs had a solid, factual look.



At length, Ivan Fitzgerald gave a short, explosive grunt.



"Ha! Got it!"



She looked up. He had detached the page and was cementing another

plastic sheet onto it.



"Any pictures?" she asked.



"None on this side. Wait a moment." He turned the sheet. "None on this

side, either." He sprayed another sheet of plastic to sandwich the page,

then picked up his pipe and relighted it.



"I get fun out of this, and it's good practice for my hands, so don't

think I'm complaining," he said, "but, Martha, do you honestly think

anybody's ever going to get anything out of this?"



Sachiko held up a scrap of the silicone plastic the Martians had used

for paper with her tweezers. It was almost an inch square.



"Look; three whole words on this piece," she crowed. "Ivan, you took the

easy book."



Fitzgerald wasn't being sidetracked. "This stuff's absolutely

meaningless," he continued. "It had a meaning fifty thousand years ago,

when it was written, but it has none at all now."



She shook her head. "Meaning isn't something that evaporates with time,"

she argued. "It has just as much meaning now as it ever had. We just

haven't learned how to decipher it."



"That seems like a pretty pointless distinction," Selim von Ohlmhorst

joined the conversation. "There no longer exists a means of deciphering

it."



"We'll find one." She was speaking, she realized, more in

self-encouragement than in controversy.



"How? From pictures and captions? We've found captioned pictures, and

what have they given us? A caption is intended to explain the picture,

not the picture to explain the caption. Suppose some alien to our

culture found a picture of a man with a white beard and mustache sawing

"Yes, I think I have one." She was trying hard not to sound too

exultant. "_Doma._ It's the name of one of the months of the Martian

calendar."



"Where did you find that?" von Ohlmhorst asked. "And how did you

establish--?"



"Here." She picked up the photostat and handed it along the table to

him. "I'd call this the title page of a magazine."



He was silent for a moment, looking at it. "Yes. I would say so, too.

Have you any of the rest of it?"



"I'm working on the first page of the first article, listed there. Wait

till I see; yes, here's all I found, together, here." She told him where

she had gotten it. "I just gathered it up, at the time, and gave it to

Geoffrey and Rosita to photostat; this is the first I've really examined

it."



The old man got to his feet, brushing tobacco ashes from the front of

his jacket, and came to where she was sitting, laying the title page on

the table and leafing quickly through the stack of photostats.



[Illustration]



"Yes, and here is the second article, on page eight, and here's the next

one." He finished the pile of photostats. "A couple of pages missing at

the end of the last article. This is remarkable; surprising that a thing

like a magazine would have survived so long."



"Well, this silicone stuff the Martians used for paper is pretty

durable," Hubert Penrose said. "There doesn't seem to have been any

water or any other fluid in it originally, so it wouldn't dry out with

time."



"Oh, it's not remarkable that the material would have survived. We've

found a good many books and papers in excellent condition. But only a

really vital culture, an organized culture, will publish magazines, and

this civilization had been dying for hundreds of years before the end.

It might have been a thousand years before the time they died out

completely that such activities as publishing ended."



"Well, look where I found it; in a closet in a cellar. Tossed in there


dismissed the subject and turned to Penrose. "I picked out the next

building to enter; that tall one with the conical thing on top. It ought

to be in pretty good shape inside; the conical top wouldn't allow dust

to accumulate, and from the outside nothing seems to be caved in or

crushed. Ground level's higher than the other one, about the seventh

floor. I found a good place and drilled for the shots; tomorrow I'll

blast a hole in it, and if you can spare some people to help, we can

start exploring it right away."



"Yes, of course, Dr. Lattimer. I can spare about a dozen, and I suppose

you can find a few civilian volunteers," Penrose told him. "What will

you need in the way of equipment?"



"Oh, about six demolition-packets; they can all be shot together. And

the usual thing in the way of lights, and breaking and digging tools,

and climbing equipment in case we run into broken or doubtful stairways.

We'll divide into two parties. Nothing ought to be entered for the first

time without a qualified archaeologist along. Three parties, if Martha

can tear herself away from this catalogue of systematized

incomprehensibilities she's making long enough to do some real work."



She felt her chest tighten and her face become stiff. She was pressing

her lips together to lock in a furious retort when Hubert Penrose

answered for her.



"Dr. Dane's been doing as much work, and as important work, as you

have," he said brusquely. "More important work, I'd be inclined to say."



Von Ohlmhorst was visibly distressed; he glanced once toward Sid

Chamberlain, then looked hastily away from him. Afraid of a story of

dissension among archaeologists getting out.



"Working out a system of pronunciation by which the Martian language

could be transliterated was a most important contribution," he said.

"And Martha did that almost unassisted."



"Unassisted by Dr. Lattimer, anyway," Penrose added. "Captain Field and

Lieutenant Koremitsu did some work, and I helped out a little, but

nine-tenths of it she did herself."



"Purely arbitrary," Lattimer disdained. "Why, we don't even know that

Ohlmhorst took the two glasses to the table for refills.



"You know, Martha," he said, when he returned, "Tony was right about one

thing. You are gambling your professional standing and reputation. It's

against all archaeological experience that a language so completely dead

as this one could be deciphered. There was a continuity between all the

other ancient languages--by knowing Greek, Champollion learned to read

Egyptian; by knowing Egyptian, Hittite was learned. That's why you and

your colleagues have never been able to translate the Harappa

hieroglyphics; no such continuity exists there. If you insist that this

utterly dead language can be read, your reputation will suffer for it."



"I heard Colonel Penrose say, once, that an officer who's afraid to risk

his military reputation seldom makes much of a reputation. It's the same

with us. If we really want to find things out, we have to risk making

mistakes. And I'm a lot more interested in finding things out than I am

in my reputation."



She glanced across the room, to where Tony Lattimer was sitting with

Gloria Standish, talking earnestly, while Gloria sipped one of the

counterfeit martinis and listened. Gloria was the leading contender for

the title of Miss Mars, 1996, if you liked big bosomy blondes, but Tony

would have been just as attentive to her if she'd looked like the Wicked

Witch in "The Wizard of Oz." because Gloria was the Pan-Federation

Telecast System commentator with the expedition.



"I know you are," the old Turco-German was saying. "That's why, when

they asked me to name another archaeologist for this expedition, I named

you."



He hadn't named Tony Lattimer; Lattimer had been pushed onto the

expedition by his university. There'd been a lot of high-level

string-pulling to that; she wished she knew the whole story. She'd

managed to keep clear of universities and university politics; all her

digs had been sponsored by non-academic foundations or art museums.



"You have an excellent standing: much better than my own, at your age.

That's why it disturbs me to see you jeopardizing it by this insistence

that the Martian language can be translated. I can't, really, see how


Koremitsu, paying out an electric cable behind. When it pulled up beside

the truck, they climbed out; Sachiko attached the free end of the cable

to a nuclear-electric battery. At once, dirty gray smoke and orange dust

puffed out from the wall of the building, and, a second later, the

multiple explosion banged.



She and Tony Lattimer and Major Lindemann climbed onto the truck,

leaving the jeep stand by the road. When they reached the building, a

satisfyingly wide breach had been blown in the wall. Lattimer had placed

his shots between two of the windows; they were both blown out along

with the wall between, and lay unbroken on the ground. Martha remembered

the first building they had entered. A Space Force officer had picked up

a stone and thrown it at one of the windows, thinking that would be all

they'd need to do. It had bounced back. He had drawn his pistol--they'd

all carried guns, then, on the principle that what they didn't know

about Mars might easily hurt them--and fired four shots. The bullets had

ricocheted, screaming thinly; there were four coppery smears of

jacket-metal on the window, and a little surface spalling. Somebody

tried a rifle; the 4000-f.s. bullet had cracked the glasslike pane

without penetrating. An oxyacetylene torch had taken an hour to cut the

window out; the lab crew, aboard the ship, were still trying to find out

just what the stuff was.



Tony Lattimer had gone forward and was sweeping his flashlight back and

forth, swearing petulantly, his voice harshened and amplified by his

helmet-speaker.



"I thought I was blasting into a hallway; this lets us into a room.

Careful; there's about a two-foot drop to the floor, and a lot of rubble

from the blast just inside."



He stepped down through the breach; the others began dragging equipment

out of the trucks--shovels and picks and crowbars and sledges, portable

floodlights, cameras, sketching materials, an extension ladder, even

Alpinists' ropes and crampons and pickaxes. Hubert Penrose was

shouldering something that looked like a surrealist machine gun but

which was really a nuclear-electric jack-hammer. Martha selected one of

the spike-shod mountaineer's ice axes, with which she could dig or chop

said, moved chiefly by a desire to oppose Lattimer.



"Yes, but think of the snafu in the halls, every time they changed

classes. It'd take half an hour to get everybody back and forth from one

floor to another." He turned to von Ohlmhorst. "I'm going up above this

floor. This place has been looted clean up to here, but there's a chance

there may be something above," he said.



"I'll stay on this floor, at present," the Turco-German replied. "There

will be much coming and going, and dragging things in and out. We should

get this completely examined and recorded first. Then Major Lindemann's

people can do their worst, here."



"Well, if nobody else wants it, I'll take the downstairs," Martha said.



"I'll go along with you," Hubert Penrose told her. "If the lower floors

have no archaeological value, we'll turn them into living quarters. I

like this building: it'll give everybody room to keep out from under

everybody else's feet." He looked down the hall. "We ought to find

escalators at the middle."



       *       *       *       *       *



The hallway, too, was thick underfoot with dust. Most of the open rooms

were empty, but a few contained furniture, including small seat-desks.

The original proponent of the university theory pointed these out as

just what might be found in classrooms. There were escalators, up and

down, on either side of the hall, and more on the intersecting passage

to the right.



"That's how they handled the students, between classes," Martha

commented. "And I'll bet there are more ahead, there."



They came to a stop where the hallway ended at a great square central

hall. There were elevators, there, on two of the sides, and four

escalators, still usable as stairways. But it was the walls, and the

paintings on them, that brought them up short and staring.



They were clouded with dirt--she was trying to imagine what they must

have looked like originally, and at the same time estimating the labor


"This is the biggest thing yet; the whole history of Mars, stone age to

the end, all on four walls. I'm taking this with the fast shutter, but

we'll telecast it in slow motion, from the beginning to the end. Tony, I

want you to do the voice for it--running commentary, interpretation of

each scene as it's shown. Would you do that?"



Would he do that! Martha thought. If he had a tail, he'd be wagging it

at the very thought.



"Well, there ought to be more murals on the other floors," she said.

"Who wants to come downstairs with us?"



Sachiko did; immediately. Ivan Fitzgerald volunteered. Sid decided to go

upstairs with Tony Lattimer, and Gloria Standish decided to go upstairs,

too. Most of the party would remain on the seventh floor, to help Selim

von Ohlmhorst get it finished. After poking tentatively at the escalator

with the spike of her ice axe, Martha led the way downward.



       *       *       *       *       *



The sixth floor was _Darfhulva_, too; military and technological

history, from the character of the murals. They looked around the

central hall, and went down to the fifth; it was like the floors above

except that the big quadrangle was stacked with dusty furniture and

boxes. Ivan Fitzgerald, who was carrying the floodlight, swung it slowly

around. Here the murals were of heroic-sized Martians, so human in

appearance as to seem members of her own race, each holding some

object--a book, or a test tube, or some bit of scientific apparatus, and

behind them were scenes of laboratories and factories, flame and smoke,

lightning-flashes. The word at the top of each of the four walls was one

with which she was already familiar--_Sornhulva_.



"Hey, Martha; there's that word," Ivan Fitzgerald exclaimed. "The one in

the title of your magazine." He looked at the paintings. "Chemistry, or

physics."



"Both." Hubert Penrose considered. "I don't think the Martians made any

sharp distinction between them. See, the old fellow with the scraggly

power-source, whatever that had been, had failed.



The middle basement had also been used, at least toward the end, for

storage; it was cut in half by a partition pierced by but one door. They

took half an hour to force this, and were on the point of sending above

for heavy equipment when it yielded enough for them to squeeze through.

Fitzgerald, in the lead with the light, stopped short, looked around,

and then gave a groan that came through his helmet-speaker like a

foghorn.



"Oh, no! _No!_"



"What's the matter, Ivan?" Sachiko, entering behind him, asked

anxiously.



He stepped aside. "Look at it, Sachi! Are we going to have to do all

that?"



Martha crowded through behind her friend and looked around, then stood

motionless, dizzy with excitement. Books. Case on case of books, half an

acre of cases, fifteen feet to the ceiling. Fitzgerald, and Penrose, who

had pushed in behind her, were talking in rapid excitement; she only

heard the sound of their voices, not their words. This must be the main

stacks of the university library--the entire literature of the vanished

race of Mars. In the center, down an aisle between the cases, she could

see the hollow square of the librarians' desk, and stairs and a

dumb-waiter to the floor above.



She realized that she was walking forward, with the others, toward this.

Sachiko was saying: "I'm the lightest; let me go first." She must be

talking about the spidery metal stairs.



"I'd say they were safe," Penrose answered. "The trouble we've had with

doors around here shows that the metal hasn't deteriorated."



In the end, the Japanese girl led the way, more catlike than ever in her

caution. The stairs were quite sound, in spite of their fragile

appearance, and they all followed her. The floor above was a duplicate

of the room they had entered, and seemed to contain about as many books.

Rather than waste time forcing the door here, they returned to the

middle basement and came up by the escalator down which they had

originally descended.



The upper basement contained kitchens--electric stoves, some with pots


excitement, broke in with interruptions. Von Ohlmhorst was staring in

incredulous amazement.



"But this floor was looted almost clean, and the buildings we've entered

before were all looted from the street level up," he said, at length.



"The people who looted this one lived here," Penrose replied. "They had

electric power to the last; we found refrigerators full of food, and

stoves with the dinner still on them. They must have used the elevators

to haul things down from the upper floor. The whole first floor was

converted into workshops and laboratories. I think that this place must

have been something like a monastery in the Dark Ages in Europe, or what

such a monastery would have been like if the Dark Ages had followed the

fall of a highly developed scientific civilization. For one thing, we

found a lot of machine guns and light auto-cannon on the street level,

and all the doors were barricaded. The people here were trying to keep a

civilization running after the rest of the planet had gone back to

barbarism; I suppose they'd have to fight off raids by the barbarians

now and then."



"You're not going to insist on making this building into expedition

quarters, I hope, colonel?" von Ohlmhorst asked anxiously.



"Oh, no! This place is an archaeological treasure-house. More than that;

from what I saw, our technicians can learn a lot, here. But you'd better

get this floor cleaned up as soon as you can, though. I'll have the

subsurface part, from the sixth floor down, airsealed. Then we'll put

in oxygen generators and power units, and get a couple of elevators into

service. For the floors above, we can use temporary airsealing floor by

floor, and portable equipment; when we have things atmosphered and

lighted and heated, you and Martha and Tony Lattimer can go to work

systematically and in comfort, and I'll give you all the help I can

spare from the other work. This is one of the biggest things we've found

yet."



Tony Lattimer and his companions came down to the seventh floor a little

later.



"I don't get this, at all," he began, as soon as he joined them. "This

lighter flamed clear and steady and the tobacco caught and burned

evenly.



The archaeologists, many of the other civilian scientists, a few of the

Space Force officers and the two news-correspondents, Sid Chamberlain

and Gloria Standish, moved in that evening, setting up cots in vacant

rooms. They installed electric stoves and a refrigerator in the old

Library Reading Room, and put in a bar and lunch counter. For a few

days, the place was full of noise and activity, then, gradually, the

Space Force people and all but a few of the civilians returned to their

own work. There was still the business of airsealing the more habitable

of the buildings already explored, and fitting them up in readiness for

the arrival, in a year and a half, of the five hundred members of the

main expedition. There was work to be done enlarging the landing field

for the ship's rocket craft, and building new chemical-fuel tanks.



There was the work of getting the city's ancient reservoirs cleared of

silt before the next spring thaw brought more water down the underground

aqueducts everybody called canals in mistranslation of Schiaparelli's

Italian word, though this was proving considerably easier than

anticipated. The ancient Canal-Builders must have anticipated a time

when their descendants would no longer be capable of maintenance work,

and had prepared against it. By the day after the University had been

made completely habitable, the actual work there was being done by

Selim, Tony Lattimer and herself, with half a dozen Space Force

officers, mostly girls, and four or five civilians, helping.



       *       *       *       *       *



They worked up from the bottom, dividing the floor-surfaces into

numbered squares, measuring and listing and sketching and photographing.

They packaged samples of organic matter and sent them up to the ship for

Carbon-14 dating and analysis; they opened cans and jars and bottles,

and found that everything fluid in them had evaporated, through the

porosity of glass and metal and plastic if there were no other way.




"Well, after fifty thousand years, you can expect something like that,"

Lattimer retorted. "When an archaeologist says something's in good

shape, he doesn't necessarily mean it'll start as soon as you shove a

switch in."



"You didn't notice that it happened when the power was on, did you," one

of the engineers asked, nettled at Lattimer's tone. "Well, it was.

Everything's burned out or shorted or fused together; I saw one busbar

eight inches across melted clean in two. It's a pity we didn't find

things in good shape, even archaeologically speaking. I saw a lot of

interesting things, things in advance of what we're using now. But it'll

take a couple of years to get everything sorted out and figure what it

looked like originally."



"Did it look as though anybody'd made any attempt to fix it?" Martha

asked.



Sachiko shook her head. "They must have taken one look at it and given

up. I don't believe there would have been any possible way to repair

anything."



"Well, that explains why they left. They needed electricity for

lighting, and heating, and all their industrial equipment was

electrical. They had a good life, here, with power; without it, this

place wouldn't have been habitable."



"Then why did they barricade everything from the inside, and how did

they get out?" Lattimer wanted to know.



"To keep other people from breaking in and looting. Last man out

probably barred the last door and slid down a rope from upstairs," von

Ohlmhorst suggested. "This Houdini-trick doesn't worry me too much.

We'll find out eventually."



"Yes, about the time Martha starts reading Martian," Lattimer scoffed.



"That may be just when we'll find out," von Ohlmhorst replied seriously.

"It wouldn't surprise me if they left something in writing when they

evacuated this place."



"Are you really beginning to treat this pipe dream of hers as a serious

possibility, Selim?" Lattimer demanded. "I know, it would be a wonderful

thing, but wonderful things don't happen just because they're wonderful.

Only because they're possible, and this isn't. Let me quote that


pick-and-shovel field archaeologist--a highly skilled and specialized

grave-robber and junk-picker--and there's more pick-and-shovel work on

this planet than I could do in a hundred lifetimes. This is something

new; I was a fool to think I could turn my back on it and go back to

scribbling footnotes about Hittite kings."



"You could have anything you wanted, in Hittitology. There are a dozen

universities that'd sooner have you than a winning football team. But

no! You have to be the top man in Martiology, too. You can't leave that

for anybody else--" Lattimer shoved his chair back and got to his feet,

leaving the table with an oath that was almost a sob of exasperation.



Maybe his feelings were too much for him. Maybe he realized, as Martha

did, what he had betrayed. She sat, avoiding the eyes of the others,

looking at the ceiling, as embarrassed as though Lattimer had flung

something dirty on the table in front of them. Tony Lattimer had,

desperately, wanted Selim to go home on the _Cyrano_. Martiology was a

new field; if Selim entered it, he would bring with him the reputation

he had already built in Hittitology, automatically stepping into the

leading role that Lattimer had coveted for himself. Ivan Fitzgerald's

words echoed back to her--when you want to be a big shot, you can't bear

the possibility of anybody else being a bigger big shot. His derision of

her own efforts became comprehensible, too. It wasn't that he was

convinced that she would never learn to read the Martian language. He

had been afraid that she would.



       *       *       *       *       *



Ivan Fitzgerald finally isolated the germ that had caused the Finchley

girl's undiagnosed illness. Shortly afterward, the malady turned into a

mild fever, from which she recovered. Nobody else seemed to have caught

it. Fitzgerald was still trying to find out how the germ had been

transmitted.



They found a globe of Mars, made when the city had been a seaport. They


Tony's found the Martians!"



Selim dropped his rag back in the bucket; she laid her clipboard on top

of the case beside her.



"Where?" they asked together.



"Over on the north side." The lieutenant took hold of himself and spoke

more deliberately. "Little room, back of one of the old faculty

offices--conference room. It was locked from the inside, and we had to

burn it down with a torch. That's where they are. Eighteen of them,

around a long table--"



Gloria Standish, who had dropped in for lunch, was on the mezzanine,

fairly screaming into a radiophone extension:



" ... Dozen and a half of them! Well, of course they're dead. What a

question! They look like skeletons covered with leather. No, I do not

know what they died of. Well, forget it; I don't care if Bill Chandler's

found a three-headed hippopotamus. Sid, don't you get it? We've found

the _Martians_!"



She slammed the phone back on its hook, rushing away ahead of them.



       *       *       *       *       *



Martha remembered the closed door; on the first survey, they hadn't

attempted opening it. Now it was burned away at both sides and lay,

still hot along the edges, on the floor of the big office room in front.

A floodlight was on in the room inside, and Lattimer was going around

looking at things while a Space Force officer stood by the door. The

center of the room was filled by a long table; in armchairs around it

sat the eighteen men and women who had occupied the room for the last

fifty millennia. There were bottles and glasses on the table in front of

them, and, had she seen them in a dimmer light, she would have thought

that they were merely dozing over their drinks. One had a knee hooked

over his chair-arm and was curled in foetuslike sleep. Another had

fallen forward onto the table, arms extended, the emerald set of a ring



Lectures. The organization of a Society of Martian Archaeology, with

Anthony Lattimer, Ph.D., the logical candidate for the chair. Degrees,

honors; the deference of the learned, and the adulation of the lay

public. Positions, with impressive titles and salaries. Sweet are the

uses of publicity.



She crushed out her cigarette and got to her feet. "Well, I still have

the final lists of what we found in _Halvhulva_--Biology--department to

check over. I'm starting on Sornhulva tomorrow, and I want that stuff in

shape for expert evaluation."



That was the sort of thing Tony Lattimer wanted to get away from, the

detail-work and the drudgery. Let the infantry do the slogging through

the mud; the brass-hats got the medals.



       *       *       *       *       *



She was halfway through the fifth floor, a week later, and was having

midday lunch in the reading room on the first floor when Hubert Penrose

came over and sat down beside her, asking her what she was doing. She

told him.



"I wonder if you could find me a couple of men, for an hour or so," she

added. "I'm stopped by a couple of jammed doors at the central hall.

Lecture room and library, if the layout of that floor's anything like

the ones below it."



"Yes. I'm a pretty fair door-buster, myself." He looked around the room.

"There's Jeff Miles; he isn't doing much of anything. And we'll put Sid

Chamberlain to work, for a change, too. The four of us ought to get your

doors open." He called to Chamberlain, who was carrying his tray over to

the dish washer. "Oh, Sid; you doing anything for the next hour or so?"



"I was going up to the fourth floor, to see what Tony's doing."



"Forget it. Tony's bagged his season limit of Martians. I'm going to

help Martha bust in a couple of doors; we'll probably find a whole

cemetery full of Martians."




she had picked up by accident afterward. The second column was a

continuation of the first: there were forty-six items in each, each item

numbered consecutively--



"Probably used uranium because it's the largest of the natural atoms,"

Penrose was saying. "The fact that there's nothing beyond it there shows

that they hadn't created any of the transuranics. A student could go to

that thing and point out the outer electron of any of the ninety-two

elements."



       *       *       *       *       *



Ninety-two! That was it; there were ninety-two items in the table on the

left wall! Hydrogen was Number One, she knew; One, _Sarfaldsorn_. Helium

was Two; that was _Tirfaldsorn_. She couldn't remember which element

came next, but in Martian it was _Sarfalddavas_. _Sorn_ must mean

matter, or substance, then. And _davas_; she was trying to think of what

it could be. She turned quickly to the others, catching hold of Hubert

Penrose's arm with one hand and waving her clipboard with the other.



"Look at this thing, over here," she was clamoring excitedly. "Tell me

what you think it is. Could it be a table of the elements?"



They all turned to look. Mort Tranter stared at it for a moment.



"Could be. If I only knew what those squiggles meant--"



That was right; he'd spent his time aboard the ship.



"If you could read the numbers, would that help?" she asked, beginning

to set down the Arabic digits and their Martian equivalents. "It's

decimal system, the same as we use."



"Sure. If that's a table of elements, all I'd need would be the numbers.

Thanks," he added as she tore off the sheet and gave it to him.



Penrose knew the numbers, and was ahead of him. "Ninety-two items,

numbered consecutively. The first number would be the atomic number.

Then a single word, the name of the element. Then the atomic weight--"



She began reading off the names of the elements. "I know hydrogen and

numbers, one to ten, spelled out.



"_Doma_'s the fifth month. That was your first Martian word, Martha,"

Penrose told her. "The word for five. And if _davas_ is the word for

metal, and _sornhulva_ is chemistry and / or physics, I'll bet Tadavas

Sornhulva is literally translated as: Of-Metal Matter-Knowledge.

Metallurgy, in other words. I wonder what Mastharnorvod means." It

surprised her that, after so long and with so much happening in the

meantime, he could remember that. "Something like 'Journal,' or

'Review,' or maybe 'Quarterly.'"



"We'll work that out, too," she said confidently. After this, nothing

seemed impossible. "Maybe we can find--" Then she stopped short. "You

said 'Quarterly.' I think it was 'Monthly,' instead. It was dated for a

specific month, the fifth one. And if _nor_ is ten, Mastharnorvod could

be 'Year-Tenth.' And I'll bet we'll find that _masthar_ is the word for

year." She looked at the table on the wall again. "Well, let's get all

these words down, with translations for as many as we can."



"Let's take a break for a minute," Penrose suggested, getting out his

cigarettes. "And then, let's do this in comfort. Jeff, suppose you and

Sid go across the hall and see what you find in the other room in the

way of a desk or something like that, and a few chairs. There'll be a

lot of work to do on this."



Sid Chamberlain had been squirming as though he were afflicted with

ants, trying to contain himself. Now he let go with an excited jabber.



"This is really it! _The_ it, not just it-of-the-week, like finding the

reservoirs or those statues or this building, or even the animals and

the dead Martians! Wait till Selim and Tony see this! Wait till Tony

sees it; I want to see his face! And when I get this on telecast, all

Terra's going to go nuts about it!" He turned to Captain Miles. "Jeff,

suppose you take a look at that other door, while I find somebody to

send to tell Selim and Tony. And Gloria; wait till she sees this--"



"Take it easy, Sid," Martha cautioned. "You'd better let me have a look


The old man shook his head slowly, smiling. "I'm afraid I wouldn't make

a passing grade. I didn't know, or at least didn't realize, that. One of

the things I'm going to place an order for, to be brought on the

_Schiaparelli_, will be a set of primers in chemistry and physics, of

the sort intended for a bright child of ten or twelve. It seems that a

Martiologist has to learn a lot of things the Hittites and the Assyrians

never heard about."



Tony Lattimer, coming in, caught the last part of the explanation. He

looked quickly at the walls and, having found out just what had

happened, advanced and caught Martha by the hand.



"You really did it, Martha! You found your bilingual! I never believed

that it would be possible; let me congratulate you!"



He probably expected that to erase all the jibes and sneers of the past.

If he did, he could have it that way. His friendship would mean as

little to her as his derision--except that his friends had to watch

their backs and his knife. But he was going home on the _Cyrano_, to be

a big shot. Or had this changed his mind for him again?



"This is something we can show the world, to justify any expenditure of

time and money on Martian archaeological work. When I get back to Terra,

I'll see that you're given full credit for this achievement--"



On Terra, her back and his knife would be out of her watchfulness.



"We won't need to wait that long," Hubert Penrose told him dryly. "I'm

sending off an official report, tomorrow; you can be sure Dr. Dane will

be given full credit, not only for this but for her previous work,

which made it possible to exploit this discovery."



"And you might add, work done in spite of the doubts and discouragements

of her colleagues," Selim von Ohlmhorst said. "To which I am ashamed to

have to confess my own share."



"You said we had to find a bilingual," she said. "You were right, too."



"This is better than a bilingual, Martha," Hubert Penrose said.

