     alphabet table, without diacritical marks.





     PREPARER'S NOTE--UNICODE EDITION



     A number of fragments of Greek and other text, omitted from the

     original posting, have been restored in this Unicode text.

     Sketches, however, have not yet been restored.









SHE







INTRODUCTION



In giving to the world the record of what, looked at as an adventure

only, is I suppose one of the most wonderful and mysterious experiences

ever undergone by mortal men, I feel it incumbent on me to explain what

my exact connection with it is. And so I may as well say at once that I

am not the narrator but only the editor of this extraordinary history,

and then go on to tell how it found its way into my hands.



Some years ago I, the editor, was stopping with a friend, "_vir

doctissimus et amicus neus_," at a certain University, which for the

purposes of this history we will call Cambridge, and was one day much

struck with the appearance of two persons whom I saw going arm-in-arm

down the street. One of these gentlemen was I think, without exception,

the handsomest young fellow I have ever seen. He was very tall, very

broad, and had a look of power and a grace of bearing that seemed as

native to him as it is to a wild stag. In addition his face was almost

without flaw--a good face as well as a beautiful one, and when he lifted

his hat, which he did just then to a passing lady, I saw that his head

was covered with little golden curls growing close to the scalp.



"Good gracious!" I said to my friend, with whom I was walking, "why,

that fellow looks like a statue of Apollo come to life. What a splendid

man he is!"



"Yes," he answered, "he is the handsomest man in the University, and one

of the nicest too. They call him 'the Greek god'; but look at the other

circumstances, being asked no questions, I did not feel called upon to

volunteer any information about our interview on the night of Vincey's

decease, beyond saying that he had come into my rooms to see me, as he

often did. On the day of the funeral a lawyer came down from London and

followed my poor friend's remains to the grave, and then went back with

his papers and effects, except, of course, the iron chest which had been

left in my keeping. For a week after this I heard no more of the matter,

and, indeed, my attention was amply occupied in other ways, for I was

up for my Fellowship, a fact that had prevented me from attending the

funeral or seeing the lawyer. At last, however, the examination was

over, and I came back to my rooms and sank into an easy chair with a

happy consciousness that I had got through it very fairly.



Soon, however, my thoughts, relieved of the pressure that had crushed

them into a single groove during the last few days, turned to the events

of the night of poor Vincey's death, and again I asked myself what it

all meant, and wondered if I should hear anything more of the matter,

and if I did not, what it would be my duty to do with the curious iron

chest. I sat there and thought and thought till I began to grow quite

disturbed over the whole occurrence: the mysterious midnight visit, the

prophecy of death so shortly to be fulfilled, the solemn oath that I had

taken, and which Vincey had called on me to answer to in another world

than this. Had the man committed suicide? It looked like it. And what

was the quest of which he spoke? The circumstances were uncanny, so

much so that, though I am by no means nervous, or apt to be alarmed

at anything that may seem to cross the bounds of the natural, I grew

afraid, and began to wish I had nothing to do with them. How much more

do I wish it now, over twenty years afterwards!



As I sat and thought, there came a knock at the door, and a letter, in a

ΕΠΕΙΘΕΝΕΜΕΓΑΡΥΠΕΡΕΦΙΛΕΙΚΑΙΤΗΝΞΕΝΗΝΕΦΟΒΕΙΤΟΑΠΗΓΑΓΕΝΗΜΑΣΥΠΟΜΑΓΕΙΑΣΚΑΘΟΔΟ

ΥΣΣΦΑΛΕΡΑΣΕΝΘΑΤΟΒΑΡΑΘΡΟΝΤΟΜΕΓΑΟΥΚΑΤΑΣΤΟΜΑΕΚΕΙΤΟΟΓΕΡΩΝΟΦΙΛΟΣΟΦΟΣΤΕΘΝΕΩΣ

ΑΦΙΚΟΜΕΝΟΙΣΔΕΔΕΙΞΕΦΩΣΤΟΥΒΙΟΥΕΥΘΥΟΙΟΝΚΙΟΝΑΕΛΙΣΣΟΜΕΝΟΝΦΩΝΗΝΙΕΝΤΑΚΑΘΑΠΕΡΒ

ΡΟΝΤΗΣΕΙΤΑΔΙΑΠΥΡΟΣΒΕΒΗΚΥΙΑΑΒΛΑΒΗΣΚΑΙΕΤΙΚΑΛΛΙΩΝΑΥΤΗΕΑΥΤΗΣΕΞΕΦΑΝΗΕΚΔΕΤΟΥ

ΤΩΝΩΜΟΣΕΚΑΙΤΟΝΣΟΝΠΑΤΕΡΑΑΘΑΝΑΤΟΝΑΠΟΔΕΙΞΕΙΝΕΙΣΥΝΟΙΚΕΙΝΟΙΒΟΥΛΟΙΤΟΕΜΕΔΕΑΝΕ

ΛΕΙΝΟΥΓΑΡΟΥΝΑΥΤΗΑΝΕΛΕΙΝΙΣΧΥΕΝΥΠΟΤΩΝΗΜΕΔΑΠΩΝΗΝΚΑΙΑΥΤΗΕΧΩΜΑΓΕΙΑΣΟΔΟΥΔΕΝΤ

ΙΜΑΛΛΟΝΗΘΕΛΕΤΩΧΕΙΡΕΤΩΝΟΜΜΑΤΩΝΠΡΟΙΣΧΩΝΙΝΑΔΗΤΟΤΗΣΓΥΝΑΙΚΟΣΚΑΛΛΟΣΜΗΟΡΩΗΕΠΕ

ΙΤΑΟΡΓΙΣΘΕΙΣΑΚΑΤΕΓΟΗΤΕΥΣΕΜΕΝΑΥΤΟΝΑΠΟΛΟΜΕΝΟΝΜΕΝΤΟΙΚΛΑΟΥΣΑΚΑΙΟΔΥΡΟΜΕΝΗΕΚ

ΕΙΘΕΝΑΠΗΝΕΓΚΕΝΕΜΕΔΕΦΟΒΩΙΑΦΗΚΕΝΕΙΣΣΤΟΜΑΤΟΥΜΕΓΑΛΟΥΠΟΤΑΜΟΥΤΟΥΝΑΥΣΙΠΟΡΟΥΠΟ

ΡΡΩΔΕΝΑΥΣΙΝΕΦΩΝΠΕΡΠΛΕΟΥΣΑΕΤΕΚΟΝΣΕΑΠΟΠΛΕΥΣΑΣΑΜΟΛΙΣΠΟΤΕΔΕΥΡΟΑΘΗΝΑΖΕΚΑΤΗΓ

ΑΓΟΜΗΝΣΥΔΕΩΤΙΣΙΣΘΕΝΕΣΩΝΕΠΙΣΤΕΛΛΩΜΗΟΛΙΓΩΡΕΙΔΕΙΓΑΡΤΗΝΓΥΝΑΙΚΑΑΝΑΖΗΤΕΙΝΗΝΠ

ΩΣΤΟΤΟΥΒΙΟΥΜΥΣΤΗΡΙΟΝΑΝΕΥΡΗΣΚΑΙΑΝΑΙΡΕΙΝΗΝΠΟΥΠΑΡΑΣΧΗΔΙΑΤΟΝΣΟΝΠΑΤΕΡΑΚΑΛΛΙ

ΚΡΑΤΗΝΕΙΔΕΦΟΒΟΥΜΕΝΟΣΗΔΙΑΑΛΛΟΤΙΑΥΤΟΣΛΕΙΠΕΙΤΟΥΕΡΓΟΥΠΑΣΙΤΟΙΣΥΣΤΕΡΟΝΑΥΤΟΤΟ

ΥΤΟΕΠΙΣΤΕΛΛΩΕΩΣΠΟΤΕΑΓΑΘΟΣΤΙΣΓΕΝΟΜΕΝΟΣΤΩΠΥΡΙΛΟΥΣΑΣΘΑΙΤΟΛΜΗΣΕΙΚΑΙΤΑΑΡΙΣΤ

ΕΙΑΕΧΩΝΒΑΣΙΛΕΥΣΑΙΤΩΝΑΝΘΡΩΠΩΝΑΠΙΣΤΑΜΕΝΔΗΤΑΤΟΙΑΥΤΑΛΕΓΩΟΜΩΣΔΕΑΑΥΤΗΕΓΝΩΚΑΟ

ΥΚΕΨΕΥΣΑΜΗΝ



The general convenience in reading, I have here accurately transcribed

this inscription into the cursive character.



Ἀμενάρτας, τοῦ βασικοῦ γένους

τοῦ Αἰγυπτίου, ἡ τοῦ Καλλικράτους

Ἴσιδος ἱερέως, ἣν οἱ μὲν θεοὶ

τρέφουσι τὰ δὲ δαιμονια ὑποτάσσεται,

ἤδη τελευτῶσα Τισισθένει τῷ παιδὶ

ἐπιστέλλει τάδε· συνέφυγον γάρ ποτε

ἐκ τῆς Αἰγυπτίας ἐπὶ Νεκτανέβου

μετὰ τοῦ σοῦ πατρός, διὰ τὸν ἔρωτα

τὸν ἐμὸν ἐπιορκήσαντος. φυγόντες δὲ

πρὸς νότον διαπόντιοι καὶ κʹδʹ μῆνας

κατὰ τὰ παραθαλάσσια τῆς Αιβύης τὰ

πρός ἡλίου ἀνατολὰς πλανηθέντες,

ἔνθαπερ πέτρα τις μελάλη, γλυπτὸν

ὁμοίωμα Αἰθίοπος κεφαλῆς, εἶτα

ἡμέρας δʹ ἀπὸ στόματος ποταμοῦ

μεγάλου ἐκπεσόντες, οἱ μέν

κατεποντίσθημεν, οἱ δὲ νόσῳ

ἀπεθάνομεν· τέλος δὲ ὑπ᾽ ἀλρίων

ἀνθρώπων ἐφερόμεθα διὰ ἐλέων τε

καὶ τεναλέων ἔνθαπερ πτηνῶν πλῆθος

ἀποκρύπτει τὸν οὐρανὸν, ἡμέρας ί,

ἕως ἤλθομεν εἰς κοῖλόν τι ὄρος, ἔνθα

ποτὲ μεγάλη μὲν πόλις ἦν, ἄντρα δὲ

ἀπείρονα· ἤγαγον δὲ ὡς βασίλειαν

τὴν τῶν ξένους χύτραις στεφανούντων,

ἥτις μαλεία μὲν ἐχρῆτο ἐπιστήμη δὲ

πάντων καὶ δὴ καὶ κάλλός καὶ ῥώμην

ἀλήρως ἦν· ἡ δὲ Καλλικράτους τοῦ

πατρὸς ἐρασθεῖδα τὸ μὲν πρῶτον

συνοικεῖν ἐβούλετο ἐμὲ δὲ ἀνελεῖν·

ἔπειτα, ὡς οὐκ ἀνέπειθεν, ἐμὲ γὰρ

ὑπερεφίλει καὶ τὴν ξένην ἐφοβεῖτο,

ἀπήγαγεν ἡμᾶς ὑπὸ μαγείας καθʹ

ὁδοὺς σφαλερὰς ἔνθα τὸ βάραθρον τὸ

μέγα, οὗ κατὰ στόμα ἔκειτο ὁ γέρων

ὁ φιλόσοφος τεθνεώς, ἀφικομένοις

δʹ ἔδειξε φῶς τοῦ βίου εὐθύ, οἷον

κίονα ἑλισσόμενον φώνην ἱέντα

καθάπερ βροντῆς, εἶτα διὰ πυρὸς

βεβηκυῖα ἀβλαβὴς καὶ ἔτι καλλίων

αὐτὴ ἑαυτῆς ἐξεφάνη. ἐκ δὲ τούτων

ὤμοσε καὶ τὸν σὸν πατέρα ἀθάνατον

ἀποδείξειν, εἰ συνοικεῖν οἱ

βούλοιτο ἐμὲ δε ὰνελεῖν, οὐ γὰρ

οὖν αὐτὴ ἀνελεῖν ἴσχυεν ὑπὸ τῶν

ἡμεδαπῶν ἣν καὶ αὐτὴ ἔχω μαγείας.

ὁ δʹ οὐδέν τι μᾶλλον ἤθελε, τὼ χεῖρε

τῶν ὀμμάτων προίσχων ἵνα δὴ τὸ τῆς

γυναικὸς κάλλος μὴ ὁρῴη· ἔπειτα

ὀργισθεῖσα κατεγοήτευσε μὲν αὐτόν,

ἀπολόμενον μέντοι κλάουσα καὶ

ὀδυρμένη ἐκεῖθεν ἀπήνεγκεν, ἐμὲ δὲ

φόβῳ ἀφῆκεν εἰς στόμα τοῦ μεγάλου

ποταμοῦ τοῦ ναυσιπόρου, πόδδω δὲ

ναυσίν, ἐφʹ ὧνπερ πλέουσα ἔτεκόν

IV



THE SQUALL



How different is the scene that I have now to tell from that which has

just been told! Gone are the quiet college rooms, gone the wind-swayed

English elms, the cawing rooks, and the familiar volumes on the shelves,

and in their place there rises a vision of the great calm ocean gleaming

in shaded silver lights beneath the beams of the full African moon. A

gentle breeze fills the huge sail of our dhow, and draws us through

the water that ripples musically against her sides. Most of the men are

sleeping forward, for it is near midnight, but a stout swarthy Arab,

Mahomed by name, stands at the tiller, lazily steering by the stars.

Three miles or more to our starboard is a low dim line. It is the

Eastern shore of Central Africa. We are running to the southward, before

the North East Monsoon, between the mainland and the reef that for

hundreds of miles fringes this perilous coast. The night is quiet, so

quiet that a whisper can be heard fore and aft the dhow; so quiet that a

faint booming sound rolls across the water to us from the distant land.



The Arab at the tiller holds up his hand, and says one word:--"_Simba_

(lion)!"



We all sit up and listen. Then it comes again, a slow, majestic sound,

that thrills us to the marrow.



"To-morrow by ten o'clock," I say, "we ought, if the Captain is not out

in his reckoning, which I think very probable, to make this mysterious

rock with a man's head, and begin our shooting."



"And begin our search for the ruined city and the Fire of Life,"

corrected Leo, taking his pipe from his mouth, and laughing a little.



"Nonsense!" I answered. "You were airing your Arabic with that man at

the tiller this afternoon. What did he tell you? He has been trading

(slave-trading, probably) up and down these latitudes for half of his

iniquitous life, and once landed on this very 'man' rock. Did he ever

hear anything of the ruined city or the caves?"



"No," answered Leo. "He says that the country is all swamp behind, and

every sort of waterfowl flew from its recesses, till it was sometimes

difficult to see the sky. Now that the sun was getting high it drew thin

sickly looking clouds of poisonous vapour from the surface of the marsh

and from the scummy pools of stagnant water.



"Two things are clear to me," I said, addressing my three companions,

who stared at this spectacle in dismay: "first, that we can't go across

there" (I pointed to the swamp), "and, secondly, that if we stop here we

shall certainly die of fever."



"That's as clear as a haystack, sir," said Job.



"Very well, then; there are two alternatives before us. One is to 'bout

ship, and try and run for some port in the whale-boat, which would be

a sufficiently risky proceeding, and the other to sail or row on up the

river, and see where we come to."



"I don't know what you are going to do," said Leo, setting his mouth,

"but I am going up that river."



Job turned up the whites of his eyes and groaned, and the Arab murmured

"Allah," and groaned also. As for me, I remarked sweetly that as we

seemed to be between the devil and the deep sea, it did not much matter

where we went. But in reality I was as anxious to proceed as Leo. The

colossal negro's head and the stone wharf had excited my curiosity to an

extent of which I was secretly ashamed, and I was prepared to gratify it

at any cost. Accordingly, having carefully fitted the mast, restowed

the boat, and got out our rifles, we embarked. Fortunately the wind

was blowing on shore from the ocean, so we were able to hoist the sail.

Indeed, we afterwards found out that as a general rule the wind set on

shore from daybreak for some hours, and off shore again at sunset, and

the explanation that I offer of this is, that when the earth is cooled

by the dew and the night the hot air rises, and the draught rushes in

from the sea till the sun has once more heated it through. At least that


forward at a run till they reached the litter in which Job was reposing

(with one leg hanging over the side). Apparently, however, he could not

make much out of Job, for presently I saw his bearers trot forward to

Leo's litter.



And after that, as nothing fresh occurred, I yielded to the pleasant

swaying motion of the litter, and went to sleep again. I was dreadfully

tired. When I woke I found that we were passing through a rocky defile

of a lava formation with precipitous sides, in which grew many beautiful

trees and flowering shrubs.



Presently this defile took a turn, and a lovely sight unfolded itself

to my eyes. Before us was a vast cup of green from four to six miles in

extent, in the shape of a Roman amphitheatre. The sides of this great

cup were rocky, and clothed with bush, but the centre was of the richest

meadow land, studded with single trees of magnificent growth, and

watered by meandering brooks. On this rich plain grazed herds of goats

and cattle, but I saw no sheep. At first I could not imagine what this

strange spot could be, but presently it flashed upon me that it must

represent the crater of some long-extinct volcano which had afterwards

been a lake, and was ultimately drained in some unexplained way. And

here I may state that from my subsequent experience of this and a much

larger, but otherwise similar spot, which I shall have occasion to

describe by-and-by, I have every reason to believe that this conclusion

was correct. What puzzled me, however, was, that although there were

people moving about herding the goats and cattle, I saw no signs of any

human habitation. Where did they all live? I wondered. My curiosity was

soon destined to be gratified. Turning to the left the string of litters

followed the cliffy sides of the crater for a distance of about half

a mile, or perhaps a little less, and then halted. Seeing the old

gentleman, my adopted "father," Billali, emerge from his litter, I did

the same, and so did Leo and Job. The first thing I saw was our wretched

Arab companion, Mahomed, lying exhausted on the ground. It appeared that

"What's up now, sir," said Job, doubtfully. "Bless us and save us,

there's that woman again. Now, surely, she can't be after me, seeing

that I have given her no encouragement. They give me the creeps, the

whole lot of them, and that's a fact. Why look, they have asked Mahomed

to dine, too. There, that lady of mine is talking to him in as nice and

civil a way as possible. Well, I'm glad it isn't me, that's all."



We looked up, and sure enough the woman in question had risen, and was

escorting the wretched Mahomed from his corner, where, overcome by some

acute prescience of horror, he had been seated, shivering, and calling

on Allah. He appeared unwilling enough to come, if for no other reason

perhaps because it was an unaccustomed honour, for hitherto his food had

been given to him apart. Anyway I could see that he was in a state of

great terror, for his tottering legs would scarcely support his

stout, bulky form, and I think it was rather owing to the resources

of barbarism behind him, in the shape of a huge Amahagger with a

proportionately huge spear, than to the seductions of the lady who led

him by the hand, that he consented to come at all.



"Well," I said to the others, "I don't at all like the look of things,

but I suppose we must face it out. Have you fellows got your revolvers

on? because, if so, you had better see that they are loaded."



"I have, sir," said Job, tapping his Colt, "but Mr. Leo has only got his

hunting knife, though that is big enough, surely."



Feeling that it would not do to wait while the missing weapon was

fetched, we advanced boldly, and seated ourselves in a line, with our

backs against the side of the cave.



As soon as we were seated, an earthenware jar was passed round

containing a fermented fluid, of by no means unpleasant taste, though

apt to turn upon the stomach, made from crushed grain--not Indian corn,

but a small brown grain that grows upon its stem in clusters, not unlike


gaze upon it."



I took this cold fragment of mortality in my hand and looked at it in

the light of the lamp with feelings which I cannot describe, so mixed

up were they between astonishment, fear, and fascination. It was light,

much lighter I should say than it had been in the living state, and the

flesh to all appearance was still flesh, though about it there clung a

faintly aromatic odour. For the rest it was not shrunk or shrivelled, or

even black and unsightly, like the flesh of Egyptian mummies, but plump

and fair, and, except where it had been slightly burnt, perfect as on

the day of death--a very triumph of embalming.



Poor little foot! I set it down upon the stone bench where it had lain

for so many thousand years, and wondered whose was the beauty that

it had upborne through the pomp and pageantry of a forgotten

civilisation--first as a merry child's, then as a blushing maid's, and

lastly as a perfect woman's. Through what halls of Life had its soft

step echoed, and in the end, with what courage had it trodden down the

dusty ways of Death! To whose side had it stolen in the hush of night

when the black slave slept upon the marble floor, and who had listened

for its stealing? Shapely little foot! Well might it have been set upon

the proud neck of a conqueror bent at last to woman's beauty, and

well might the lips of nobles and of kings have been pressed upon its

jewelled whiteness.



I wrapped up this relic of the past in the remnants of the old linen rag

which had evidently formed a portion of its owner's grave-clothes, for

it was partially burnt, and put it away in my Gladstone bag--a strange

combination, I thought. Then with Billali's help I staggered off to see

Leo. I found him dreadfully bruised, worse even than myself, perhaps

owing to the excessive whiteness of his skin, and faint and weak with

the loss of blood from the flesh wound in his side, but for all that

cheerful as a cricket, and asking for some breakfast. Job and Ustane

and a party of the guard at once ran off to cut the animal up. As for

myself, though I was longing to have a look at him, I sauntered back

to my litter as though I had been in the habit of killing eland all my

life, feeling that I had gone up several degrees in the estimation

of the Amahagger, who looked on the whole thing as a very high-class

manifestation of witchcraft. As a matter of fact, however, I had

never seen an eland in a wild state before. Billali received me with

enthusiasm.



"It is wonderful, my son the Baboon," he cried; "wonderful! Thou art

a very great man, though so ugly. Had I not seen, surely I would never

have believed. And thou sayest that thou wilt teach me to slay in this

fashion?"



"Certainly, my father," I said airily; "it is nothing."



But all the same I firmly made up my mind that when "my father" Billali

began to fire I would without fail lie down or take refuge behind a

tree.



After this little incident nothing happened of any note till about an

hour and a half before sundown, when we arrived beneath the shadow of

the towering volcanic mass that I have already described. It is quite

impossible for me to describe its grim grandeur as it appeared to me

while my patient bearers toiled along the bed of the ancient watercourse

towards the spot where the rich brown-hued cliff shot up from precipice

to precipice till its crown lost itself in a cloud. All I can say is

that it almost awed me by the intensity of its lonesome and most solemn

greatness. On we went up the bright and sunny slope, till at last the

creeping shadows from above swallowed up its brightness, and presently

we began to pass through a cutting hewn in the living rock. Deeper

and deeper grew this marvellous work, which must, I should say, have

employed thousands of men for many years. Indeed, how it was ever

executed at all without the aid of blasting-powder or dynamite I cannot

to this day imagine. It is and must remain one of the mysteries of that

the Pig. But gallantly they fought. Oh _Hiya_! they fought like very

men, and slew many, and held their own, and then I came and saved them,

and the evildoers have I sent on hither to Kôr to be judged of thy

greatness, oh _She_! and here they are."



"Ay, old man, I know it, and to-morrow will I sit in the great hall and

do justice upon them, fear not. And for thee, I forgive thee, though

hardly. See that thou dost keep thine household better. Go."



Billali rose upon his knees with astonishing alacrity, bowed his head

thrice, and his white beard sweeping the ground, crawled down the

apartment as he had crawled up it, till he finally vanished through the

curtains, leaving me, not a little to my alarm, alone with this terrible

but most fascinating person.







XIII



AYESHA UNVEILS



"There," said _She_, "he has gone, the white-bearded old fool! Ah, how

little knowledge does a man acquire in his life. He gathereth it up like

water, but like water it runneth through his fingers, and yet, if his

hands be but wet as though with dew, behold a generation of fools call

out, 'See, he is a wise man!' Is it not so? But how call they thee?

'Baboon,' he says," and she laughed; "but that is the fashion of these

savages who lack imagination, and fly to the beasts they resemble for a

name. How do they call thee in thine own country, stranger?"



"They call me Holly, oh Queen," I answered.



"Holly," she answered, speaking the word with difficulty, and yet with a

most charming accent; "and what is 'Holly'?"



"'Holly' is a prickly tree," I said.



"So. Well, thou hast a prickly and yet a tree-like look. Strong art

thou, and ugly, but if my wisdom be not at fault, honest at the core,

and a staff to lean on. Also one who thinks. But stay, oh Holly, stand

not there, enter with me and be seated by me. I would not see thee crawl

before me like those slaves. I am aweary of their worship and their

now well on in middle life, had fallen absolutely and hopelessly in love

with this white sorceress. Nonsense; it must be nonsense! She had warned

me fairly, and I had refused to take the warning. Curses on the fatal

curiosity that is ever prompting man to draw the veil from woman,

and curses on the natural impulse that begets it! It is the cause of

half--ay, and more than half--of our misfortunes. Why cannot man be

content to live alone and be happy, and let the women live alone and be

happy too? But perhaps they would not be happy, and I am not sure that

we should either. Here is a nice state of affairs. I, at my age, to fall

a victim to this modern Circe! But then she was not modern, at least she

said not. She was almost as ancient as the original Circe.



I tore my hair, and jumped up from my couch, feeling that if I did

not do something I should go off my head. What did she mean about the

scarabæus too? It was Leo's scarabæus, and had come out of the old

coffer that Vincey had left in my rooms nearly one-and-twenty years

before. Could it be, after all, that the whole story was true, and

the writing on the sherd was _not_ a forgery, or the invention of some

crack-brained, long-forgotten individual? And if so, could it be that

_Leo_ was the man that _She_ was waiting for--the dead man who was to be

born again! Impossible! The whole thing was gibberish! Who ever heard of

a man being born again?



But if it were possible that a woman could exist for two thousand years,

this might be possible also--anything might be possible. I myself might,

for aught I knew, be a reincarnation of some other forgotten self, or

perhaps the last of a long line of ancestral selves. Well, _vive la

guerre!_ why not? Only, unfortunately, I had no recollection of these

previous conditions. The idea was so absurd to me that I burst out

laughing, and, addressing the sculptured picture of a grim-looking

warrior on the cave wall, called out to him aloud, "Who knows, old

power as she went on, till the place rang with it. "Eaters of human

flesh, two things have ye done. First, ye have attacked these strangers,

being white men, and would have slain their servant, and for that alone

death is your reward. But that is not all. Ye have dared to disobey me.

Did I not send my word unto you by Billali, my servant, and the father

of your household? Did I not bid you to hospitably entertain these

strangers, whom now ye have striven to slay, and whom, had not they

been brave and strong beyond the strength of men, ye would cruelly have

murdered? Hath it not been taught to you from childhood that the law of

_She_ is an ever fixed law, and that he who breaketh it by so much as

one jot or tittle shall perish? And is not my lightest word a law?

Have not your fathers taught you this, I say, whilst as yet ye were but

children? Do ye not know that as well might ye bid these great caves to

fall upon you, or the sun to cease its journeying, as to hope to turn

me from my courses, or make my word light or heavy, according to your

minds? Well do ye know it, ye Wicked Ones. But ye are all evil--evil

to the core--the wickedness bubbles up in you like a fountain in the

spring-time. Were it not for me, generations since had ye ceased to be,

for of your own evil way had ye destroyed each other. And now, because

ye have done this thing, because ye have striven to put these men, my

guests, to death, and yet more because ye have dared to disobey my word,

this is the doom that I doom you to. That ye be taken to the cave of

torture,[*] and given over to the tormentors, and that on the going down

of to-morrow's sun those of you who yet remain alive be slain, even as

ye would have slain the servant of this my guest."



     [*] "The cave of torture." I afterwards saw this dreadful

     place, also a legacy from the prehistoric people who lived

thou art not the man. Ah Holly, for all thy wisdom--and in a way thou

art wise--thou art but a fool running after folly. Thou wouldst look

into mine eyes--thou wouldst kiss me! Well, if it pleaseth thee,

_look_," and she bent herself towards me, and fixed her dark and

thrilling orbs upon my own; "ay, and _kiss_ too, if thou wilt, for,

thanks be given to the scheme of things, kisses leave no marks, except

upon the heart. But if thou dost kiss, I tell thee of a surety wilt thou

eat out thy breast with love of me, and die!" and she bent yet further

towards me till her soft hair brushed my brow, and her fragrant breath

played upon my face, and made me faint and weak. Then of a sudden, even

as I stretched out my hands to clasp, she straightened herself, and a

quick change passed over her. Reaching out her hand, she held it over my

head, and it seemed to me that something flowed from it that chilled

me back to common sense, and a knowledge of propriety and the domestic

virtues.



"Enough of this wanton folly," she said with a touch of sternness.

"Listen, Holly. Thou art a good and honest man, and I fain would spare

thee; but, oh! it is so hard for woman to be merciful. I have said I am

not for thee, therefore let thy thoughts pass by me like an idle wind,

and the dust of thy imagination sink again into the depths--well, of

despair, if thou wilt. Thou dost not know me, Holly. Hadst thou seen me

but ten hours past when my passion seized me, thou hadst shrunk from me

in fear and trembling. I am of many moods, and, like the water in that

vessel, I reflect many things; but they pass, my Holly; they pass, and

are forgotten. Only the water is the water still, and I still am I, and

that which maketh the water maketh it, and that which maketh me maketh

me, nor can my quality be altered. Therefore, pay no heed to what I

seem, seeing that thou canst not know what I am. If thou troublest me


I saw a little quiver pass down Ayesha's frame, and shuddered myself,

fearing the worst.



"Be pitiful," I said in Latin; "it is but Nature working."



"I am pitiful," she answered coldly in the same language; "had I not

been pitiful she had been dead even now." Then, addressing Ustane:

"Woman, I say to thee, go before I destroy thee where thou art!"



"I will not go! He is mine--mine!" she cried in anguish. "I took him,

and I saved his life! Destroy me, then, if thou hast the power! I will

not give thee my husband--never--never!"



Ayesha made a movement so swift that I could scarcely follow it, but it

seemed to me that she lightly struck the poor girl upon the head with

her hand. I looked at Ustane, and then staggered back in horror, for

there upon her hair, right across her bronze-like tresses, were three

finger-marks _white as snow_. As for the girl herself, she had put her

hands to her head, and was looking dazed.



"Great heavens!" I said, perfectly aghast at this dreadful manifestation

of human power; but _She_ did but laugh a little.



"Thou thinkest, poor ignorant fool," she said to the bewildered woman,

"that I have not the power to slay. Stay, there lies a mirror," and she

pointed to Leo's round shaving-glass that had been arranged by Job with

other things upon his portmanteau; "give it to this woman, my Holly, and

let her see that which lies across her hair, and whether or no I have

power to slay."



I picked up the glass, and held it before Ustane's eyes. She gazed, then

felt at her hair, then gazed again, and then sank upon the ground with a

sort of sob.



"Now, wilt thou go, or must I strike a second time?" asked Ayesha, in

mockery. "Look, I have set my seal upon thee so that I may know thee

till thy hair is all as white as it. If I see thy face again, be sure,

too, that thy bones shall soon be whiter than my mark upon thy hair."



Utterly awed and broken down, the poor creature rose, and, marked with



"For Heaven's sake, Leo," I began, but she broke in--



"Nay, listen not to him. Swift--be swift--death is in the air we

breathe. Even now, mayhap, _She_ heareth us," and without more ado she

proceeded to back her arguments by throwing herself into his arms. As

she did so the leopard's head slipped from her hair, and I saw the three

white finger-marks upon it, gleaming faintly in the starlight. Once

more realising the desperate nature of the position, I was about to

interpose, for I knew that Leo was not too strong-minded where women

were concerned, when--oh! horror!--I heard a little silvery laugh behind

me. I turned round, and there was _She_ herself, and with her Billali

and two male mutes. I gasped and nearly sank to the ground, for I knew

that such a situation must result in some dreadful tragedy, of which it

seemed exceedingly probable to me that I should be the first victim. As

for Ustane, she untwined her arms and covered her eyes with her hands,

while Leo, not knowing the full terror of the position, merely covered

up, and looked as foolish as a man caught in such a trap would naturally

do.







XX



TRIUMPH



Then followed a moment of the most painful silence that I ever endured.

It was broken by Ayesha, who addressed herself to Leo.



"Nay, now, my lord and guest," she said in her softest tones, which yet

had the ring of steel about them, "look not so bashful. Surely the sight

was a pretty one--the leopard and the lion!"



"Oh, hang it all!" said Leo in English.



"And thou, Ustane," she went on, "surely I should have passed thee by,

had not the light fallen on the white across thy hair," and she pointed

to the bright edge of the rising moon which was now appearing above

the horizon. "Well! well! the dance is done--see, the tapers have burnt

down, and all things end in silence and in ashes. So thou thoughtest

it a fit time for love, Ustane, my servant--and I, dreaming not that I

could be disobeyed, thought thee already far away."

lamplight play upon it. I looked, and then shrank back terrified; since,

say what she might in explanation, the sight was an uncanny one--for her

explanations were beyond the grasp of our finite minds, and when they

were stripped from the mists of vague esoteric philosophy, and brought

into conflict with the cold and horrifying fact, did not do much to

break its force. For there, stretched upon the stone bier before us,

robed in white and perfectly preserved, was what appeared to be the body

of Leo Vincey. I stared from Leo, standing _there_ alive, to Leo lying

_there_ dead, and could see no difference; except, perhaps, that the

body on the bier looked older. Feature for feature they were the same,

even down to the crop of little golden curls, which was Leo's most

uncommon beauty. It even seemed to me, as I looked, that the expression

on the dead man's face resembled that which I had sometimes seen upon

Leo's when he was plunged into profound sleep. I can only sum up the

closeness of the resemblance by saying that I never saw twins so exactly

similar as that dead and living pair.



I turned to see what effect was produced upon Leo by the sight of his

dead self, and found it to be one of partial stupefaction. He stood

for two or three minutes staring, and said nothing, and when at last he

spoke it was only to ejaculate--



"Cover it up, and take me away."



"Nay, wait, Kallikrates," said Ayesha, who, standing with the lamp

raised above her head, flooding with its light her own rich beauty and

the cold wonder of the death-clothed form upon the bier, resembled

an inspired Sibyl rather than a woman, as she rolled out her majestic

sentences with a grandeur and a freedom of utterance which I am, alas!

quite unable to reproduce.



"Wait, I would show thee something, that no tittle of my crime may be

hidden from thee. Do thou, oh Holly, open the garment on the breast

of the dead Kallikrates, for perchance my lord may fear to touch it

himself."



I obeyed with trembling hands. It seemed a desecration and an unhallowed

even now I hate, for in a way she did prevail against me--see, now, she

herself hath been the very means to bring her lover to mine arms! For

her sake I slew him, and now, behold, through her he hath come back to

me! She would have done me evil, and sowed her seeds that I might reap

tares, and behold she hath given me more than all the world can give,

and there is a strange square for thee to fit into thy circle of good

and evil, oh Holly!



"And so," she went on, after a pause--"and so she bade her son destroy

me if he might, because I slew his father. And thou, my Kallikrates, art

the father, and in a sense thou art likewise the son; and wouldst thou

avenge thy wrong, and the wrong of that far-off mother of thine, upon

me, oh Kallikrates? See," and she slid to her knees, and drew the white

corsage still farther down her ivory bosom--"see, here beats my heart,

and there by thy side is a knife, heavy, and long, and sharp, the very

knife to slay an erring woman with. Take it now, and be avenged. Strike,

and strike home!--so shalt thou be satisfied, Kallikrates, and go

through life a happy man, because thou hast paid back the wrong, and

obeyed the mandate of the past."



He looked at her, and then stretched out his hand and lifted her to her

feet.



"Rise, Ayesha," he said sadly; "well thou knowest that I cannot strike

thee, no, not even for the sake of her whom thou slewest but last

night. I am in thy power, and a very slave to thee. How can I kill

thee?--sooner should I slay myself."



"Almost dost thou begin to love me, Kallikrates," she answered, smiling.

"And now tell me of thy country--'tis a great people, is it not? with an

empire like that of Rome! Surely thou wouldst return thither, and it is

well, for I mean not that thou shouldst dwell in these caves of Kôr.

Nay, when once thou art even as I am, we will go hence--fear not but

that I shall find a path--and then shall we journey to this England of

back, together with a spare jar of oil, while Leo loaded himself with

the provisions and some water in a kid's skin. When this was done _She_

bade Billali and the six bearer mutes to retreat behind a grove of

flowering magnolias about a hundred yards away, and remain there under

pain of death till we had vanished. They bowed humbly, and went, and,

as he departed, old Billali gave me a friendly shake of the hand, and

whispered that he had rather that it was I than he who was going on this

wonderful expedition with "_She-who-must-be-obeyed_," and upon my word

I felt inclined to agree with him. In another minute they were gone, and

then, having briefly asked us if we were ready, Ayesha turned, and gazed

up the towering cliff.



"Goodness me, Leo," I said, "surely we are not going to climb that

precipice!"



Leo shrugged his shoulders, being in a condition of half-fascinated,

half-expectant mystification, and as he did so, Ayesha with a sudden

move began to climb the cliff, and of course we had to follow her. It

was perfectly marvellous to see the ease and grace with which she sprang

from rock to rock, and swung herself along the ledges. The ascent was

not, however, so difficult as it seemed, although there were one or two

nasty places where it did not do to look behind you, the fact being that

the rock still sloped here, and was not absolutely precipitous as it was

higher up. In this way we, with no great labour, mounted to the height

of some fifty feet above our last standing-place, the only really

troublesome thing to manage being Job's board, and in doing so drew some

fifty or sixty paces to the left of our starting-point, for we went up

like a crab, sideways. Presently we reached a ledge, narrow enough at

first, but which widened as we followed it, and moreover sloped inwards

like the petal of a flower, so that as we followed it we gradually got

into a kind of rut or fold of rock, that grew deeper and deeper, till at

last it resembled a Devonshire lane in stone, and hid us perfectly from

mind hovering ever o'er humanity, shall so much as shadow thee with the

shadow of their wings. As a God shalt thou be, holding good and evil in

the hollow of thy hand, and I, even I, I humble myself before thee.

Such is the power of Love, and such is the bridal gift I give unto thee,

Kallikrates, my Lord and Lord of All.



"And now it is done; now for thee I loose my virgin zone; and come

storm, come shine, come good, come evil, come life, come death, it

never, never can be undone. For, of a truth, that which is, is, and,

being done, is done for aye, and cannot be altered. I have said--Let us

hence, that all things may be accomplished in their order;" and, taking

one of the lamps, she advanced towards the end of the chamber that was

roofed in by the swaying stone, where she halted.



We followed her, and perceived that in the wall of the cone there was a

stair, or, to be more accurate, that some projecting knobs of rock had

been so shaped as to form a good imitation of a stair. Down this Ayesha

began to climb, springing from step to step, like a chamois, and after

her we followed with less grace. When we had descended some fifteen

or sixteen steps we found that they ended in a tremendous rocky slope,

running first outwards and then inwards--like the slope of an inverted

cone, or tunnel. The slope was very steep, and often precipitous, but

it was nowhere impassable, and by the light of the lamps we went down it

with no great difficulty, though it was gloomy work enough travelling on

thus, no one of us knew whither, into the dead heart of a volcano. As

we went, however, I took the precaution of noting our route as well as

I could; and this was not so very difficult, owing to the extraordinary

and most fantastic shape of the rocks that were strewn about, many of

which in that dim light looked more like the grim faces carven upon

mediæval gargoyles than ordinary boulders.



For a long time we travelled on thus, half an hour I should say, till,

extreme difficulty of finding our way. Indeed, had it not been for the

mental notes that I had fortunately taken of the shape of various rocks,

I am sure that we never should have managed it at all, but have wandered

about in the dreadful womb of the volcano--for I suppose it must

once have been something of the sort--until we died of exhaustion and

despair. As it was we went wrong several times, and once nearly fell

into a huge crack or crevasse. It was terrible work creeping about

in the dense gloom and awful stillness from boulder to boulder,

and examining it by the feeble light of the lamps to see if I could

recognise its shape. We rarely spoke, our hearts were too heavy

for speech, we simply stumbled about, falling sometimes and cutting

ourselves, in a rather dogged sort of way. The fact was that our spirits

were utterly crushed, and we did not greatly care what happened to us.

Only we felt bound to try and save our lives whilst we could, and indeed

a natural instinct prompted us to it. So for some three or four hours,

I should think--I cannot tell exactly how long, for we had no watch

left that would go--we blundered on. During the last two hours we were

completely lost, and I began to fear that we had got into the funnel of

some subsidiary cone, when at last I suddenly recognised a very large

rock which we had passed in descending but a little way from the top.

It is a marvel that I should have recognised it, and, indeed, we

had already passed it going at right angles to the proper path, when

something about it struck me, and I turned back and examined it in an

idle sort of way, and, as it happened, this proved our salvation.



After this we gained the rocky natural stair without much further

trouble, and in due course found ourselves back in the little chamber

where the benighted Noot had lived and died.



But now a fresh terror stared us in the face. It will be remembered that

owing to Job's fear and awkwardness, the plank upon which we had crossed

