

I must admit that my acquaintance with this people dates from a period

which closed almost before your day. What I know of them I gathered

at the time when Cetewayo, of whom my volume tells, was in his glory,

previous to the evil hour in which he found himself driven by the

clamour of his regiments, cut off, as they were, through the annexation

of the Transvaal, from their hereditary trade of war, to match himself

against the British strength. I learned it all by personal observation

in the ‘seventies, or from the lips of the great Shepstone, my chief and

friend, and from my colleagues Osborn, Fynney, Clarke and others, every

one of them long since “gone down.”



Perhaps it may be as well that this is so, at any rate in the case of

one who desires to write of the Zulus as a reigning nation, which now

they have ceased to be, and to try to show them as they were, in all

their superstitious madness and bloodstained grandeur.



Yet then they had virtues as well as vices. To serve their Country in

arms, to die for it and for the King; such was their primitive ideal. If

they were fierce they were loyal, and feared neither wounds nor doom; if

they listened to the dark redes of the witch-doctor, the trumpet-call

of duty sounded still louder in their ears; if, chanting their terrible

“Ingoma,” at the King’s bidding they went forth to slay unsparingly, at

least they were not mean or vulgar. From those who continually must face

the last great issues of life or death meanness and vulgarity are

far removed. These qualities belong to the safe and crowded haunts of

civilised men, not to the kraals of Bantu savages, where, at any rate of

old, they might be sought in vain.



Now everything is changed, or so I hear, and doubtless in the balance

this is best. Still we may wonder what are the thoughts that pass

through the mind of some ancient warrior of Chaka’s or Dingaan’s time,

as he suns himself crouched on the ground, for example, where once stood

the royal kraal, Duguza, and watches men and women of the Zulu blood




“There, Mother,” I said, for now we were alone in the hut, whence Scowl

had fled, badly bitten in the calf, “you won’t die now.”



“No, you vile White Man,” she sobbed. “I shan’t die, but how about my

beauty?”



“It will be greater than ever,” I answered; “no one else will have an

ear with such a curve in it. But, talking of beauty, where is Mameena?”



“I don’t know where she is,” she replied with fury, “but I very well

know where she would be if I had my way. That peeled willow-wand of

a girl”--here she added certain descriptive epithets I will not

repeat--“has brought this misfortune upon me. We had a slight quarrel

yesterday, White Man, and, being a witch as she is, she prophesied evil.

Yes, when by accident I scratched her ear, she said that before long

mine should burn, and surely burn it does.” (This, no doubt, was true,

for the caustic had begun to bite.)



“O devil of a White Man,” she went on, “you have bewitched me; you have

filled my head with fire.”



Then she seized an earthenware pot and hurled it at me, saying, “Take

that for your doctor-fee. Go, crawl after Mameena like the others and

get her to doctor you.”



By this time I was half through the bee-hole of the hut, my movements

being hastened by a vessel of hot water which landed on me behind.



“What is the matter, Macumazahn?” asked old Umbezi, who was waiting

outside.



“Nothing at all, friend,” I answered with a sweet smile, “except that

your wife wants to see you at once. She is in pain, and wishes you to

soothe her. Go in; do not hesitate.”



After a moment’s pause he went in--that is, half of him went in. Then

came a fearful crash, and he emerged again with the rim of a pot about

his neck and his countenance veiled in a coating of what I took to be

honey.



“Where is Mameena?” I asked him as he sat up spluttering.



“Where I wish I was,” he answered in a thick voice; “at a kraal five

wearing only a cloak of leopard skins open in front, for he was

unadorned with the usual hideous trappings of a witch-doctor, such as

snake-skins, human bones, bladders full of unholy compounds, and so

forth.



What a man he was, if indeed he could be called quite human. His

stature, though stout, was only that of a child; his head was enormous,

and from it plaited white hair fell down on to his shoulders. His eyes

were deep and sunken, his face was broad and very stern. Except for this

snow-white hair, however, he did not look ancient, for his flesh was

firm and plump, and the skin on his cheeks and neck unwrinkled, which

suggested to me that the story of his great antiquity was false. A man

who was over a hundred years old, for instance, surely could not boast

such a beautiful set of teeth, for even at that distance I could see

them gleaming. On the other hand, evidently middle age was far behind

him; indeed, from his appearance it was quite impossible to guess even

approximately the number of his years. There he sat, red in the red

light, perfectly still, and staring without a blink of his eyes at the

furious ball of the setting sun, as an eagle is said to be able to do.



Saduko advanced, and I walked after him. My stature is not great, and

I have never considered myself an imposing person, but somehow I do not

think that I ever felt more insignificant than on this occasion. The

tall and splendid native beside, or rather behind whom I walked, the

gloomy magnificence of the place, the blood-red light in which it was

bathed, and the solemn, solitary, little figure with wisdom stamped upon

its face before me, all tended to induce humility in a man not naturally

vain. I felt myself growing smaller and smaller, both in a moral and a

physical sense; I wished that my curiosity had not prompted me to seek

an interview with yonder uncanny being.



Well, it was too late to retreat; indeed, Saduko was already standing

before the dwarf and lifting his right arm above his head as he gave him


voice, one with the ring of truth in it.



“Why not?”



“Because I saved your life on that day. You escaped alone of the White

Men, did you not? And you never could understand why, could you?”



“No, I could not, Zikali. I put it down to what you would call ‘the

spirits.’”



“Well, I will tell you. Those spirits of yours wore my kaross,” and

he laughed. “I saw you with the Boers, and saw, too, that you were of

another people--the people of the English. You may have heard at the

time that I was doctoring at the Great Place, although I kept out of the

way and we did not meet, or at least you never knew that we met, for you

were--asleep. Also I pitied your youth, for, although you do not believe

it, I had a little bit of heart left in those days. Also I knew that we

should come together again in the after years, as you see we have done

to-day and shall often do until the end. So I told Dingaan that whoever

died you must be spared, or he would bring up the ‘people of George’

[i.e. the English] to avenge you, and your ghost would enter into him

and pour out a curse upon him. He believed me who did not understand

that already so many curses were gathered about his head that one more

or less made no matter. So you see you were spared, Macumazahn, and

afterwards you helped to pour out a curse upon Dingaan without becoming

a ghost, which is the reason why Panda likes you so well to-day, Panda,

the enemy of Dingaan, his brother. You remember the woman who helped

you? Well, I made her do so. How did it go with you afterwards,

Macumazahn, with you and the Boer maiden across the Buffalo River, to

whom you were making love in those days?”



“Never mind how it went,” I replied, springing up, for the old wizard’s

talk had stirred sad and bitter memories in my heart. “That time is

dead, Zikali.”



“Is it, Macumazahn? Now, from the look upon your face I should have said

Almost I did so, but that cleft horn, to which hung the remains

of Umbezi’s moocha, scooped me up and hurled me off the river bank

backwards and sideways into the deep pool below. As I departed thither I

saw Saduko spring forward and heard a shot fired that caused the bull to

collapse for a moment. Then with a slow, sliding motion it followed me

into the pool.



Now we were together, and there was no room for both, so after a certain

amount of dodging I went under, as the lighter dog always does in a

fight. That buffalo seemed to do everything to me which a buffalo

could do under the circumstances. It tried to horn me, and partially

succeeded, although I ducked at each swoop. Then it struck me with its

nose and drove me to the bottom of the pool, although I got hold of its

lip and twisted it. Then it calmly knelt on me and sank me deeper and

deeper into the mud. I remember kicking it in the stomach. After this I

remember no more, except a kind of wild dream in which I rehearsed

all the scene in the dwarf’s hut, and his request that when I met the

buffalo with the cleft horn in the pool of a dried river, I should

remember that he was nothing but a “poor old Kafir cheat.”



After this I saw my mother bending over a little child in my bed in the

old house in Oxfordshire where I was born, and then--blackness!





I came to myself again and saw, instead of my mother, the stately figure

of Saduko bending over me upon one side, and on the other that of Scowl,

the half-bred Hottentot, who was weeping, for his hot tears fell upon my

face.



“He is gone,” said poor Scowl; “that bewitched beast with the split

horn has killed him. He is gone who was the best white man in all South

Africa, whom I loved better than my father and all my relatives.”



“That you might easily do, Bastard,” answered Saduko, “seeing that you

do not know who they are. But he is not gone, for the ‘Opener-of-Roads’


her ambitions. She asked me for my advice as to Saduko. On this point

I replied to her that, if she loved him, and her father would allow it,

presumably she had better marry him.



“I like him well enough, Macumazahn, although he wearies me at times;

but love-- Oh, tell me, _what_ is love?” Then she clasped her slim hands

and gazed at me like a fawn.



“Upon my word, young woman,” I replied, “that is a matter upon which I

should have thought you more competent to instruct me.”



“Oh, Macumazahn,” she said almost in a whisper, and letting her head

droop like a fading lily, “you have never given me the chance, have

you?” And she laughed a little, looking extremely attractive.



“Good gracious!”--or, rather, its Zulu equivalent--I answered, for I

began to feel nervous. “What do you mean, Mameena? How could I--” There

I stopped.



“I do not know what I mean, Macumazahn,” she exclaimed wildly, “but

I know well enough what you mean--that you are white as snow and I am

black as soot, and that snow and soot don’t mix well together.”



“No,” I answered gravely, “snow is good to look at, and so is soot, but

mingled they make an ugly colour. Not that you are like soot,” I added

hastily, fearing to hurt her feelings. “That is your hue”--and I touched

a copper bangle she was wearing--“a very lovely hue, Mameena, like

everything else about you.”



“Lovely,” she said, beginning to weep a little, which upset me very

much, for if there is one thing I hate, it is to see a woman cry. “How

can a poor Zulu girl be lovely? Oh, Macumazahn, the spirits have dealt

hardly with me, who have given me the colour of my people and the

heart of yours. If I were white, now, what you are pleased to call this

loveliness of mine would be of some use to me, for then-- then-- Oh,

cannot you guess, Macumazahn?”



I shook my head and said that I could not, and next moment was sorry,

for she proceeded to explain.



“Why not do your own hunting, Masapo?” asked Saduko. “Come, now, I

will promise you good sport. Outside this kraal there are other hyenas

waiting who call me chief--a hundred or two of them--assembled for a

certain purpose by the royal leave of King Panda, whose House, as we all

know, you hate. Come, leave that beef and beer and begin your hunting of

hyenas, O Masapo.”



Now Masapo sat silent, for he saw that he who thought to snare a baboon

had caught a tiger.



“You do not speak, O Chief of the little Amansomi,” went on Saduko, who

was beside himself with rage and jealousy. “You will not leave your beef

and beer to hunt the hyenas who are captained by an umfokazana! Well,

then, the umfokazana will speak,” and, stepping up to Masapo, with the

spear he carried poised in his right hand, Saduko grasped his rival’s

short beard with his left.



“Listen, Chief,” he said. “You and I are enemies. You seek the woman I

seek, and, mayhap, being rich, you will buy her. But if so, I tell you

that I will kill you and all your House, you sneaking, half-bred dog!”



With these fierce words he spat in his face and tumbled him backwards.

Then, before anyone could stop him, for Umbezi, and even Masapo’s

headmen, seemed paralysed with surprise, he stalked through the kraal

gate, saying as he passed me:



“Inkoosi, I have words for you when you are at liberty.”



“You shall pay for this,” roared Umbezi after him, turning almost green

with rage, for Masapo still lay upon his broad back, speechless, “you

who dare to insult my guest in my own house.”



“Somebody must pay,” cried back Saduko from the gate, “but who it is

only the unborn moons will see.”



“Mameena,” I said as I followed him, “you have set fire to the grass,

and men will be burned in it.”



“I meant to, Macumazahn,” she answered calmly. “Did I not tell you

that there was a flame in me, and it will break out sometimes? But,

Macumazahn, it is you who have set fire to the grass, not I. Remember




So Saduko was overruled and my counsel adopted.



All that day we rested, lighting no fires and remaining still as the

dead in the dense bush. It was a very anxious day, for although the

place was so wild and lonely, there was always the fear lest we should

be discovered. It was true that we had travelled mostly by night in

small parties, to avoid leaving a spoor, and avoided all kraals; still,

some rumour of our approach might have reached the Amakoba, or a party

of hunters might stumble on us, or those who sought for lost cattle.



Indeed, something of this sort did happen, for about midday we heard a

footfall, and perceived the figure of a man, whom by his head-dress we

knew for an Amakoba, threading his way through the bush. Before he saw

us he was in our midst. For a moment he hesitated ere he turned to fly,

and that moment was his last, for three of the Amangwane leapt on him

silently as leopards leap upon a buck, and where he stood there he died.

Poor fellow! Evidently he had been on a visit to some witch-doctor, for

in his blanket we found medicine and love charms. This doctor cannot

have been one of the stamp of Zikali the Dwarf, I thought to myself;

at least, he had not warned him that he would never live to dose his

beloved with that foolish medicine.



Meanwhile a few of us who had the quickest eyes climbed trees, and

thence watched the town of Bangu and the valley that lay between us and

it. Soon we saw that so far, at any rate, Fortune was playing into our

hands, since herd after herd of kine were driven into the valley during

the afternoon and enclosed in the stock-kraals. Doubtless Bangu intended

on the morrow to make his half-yearly inspection of all the cattle of

the tribe, many of which were herded at a distance from his town.



At length the long day drew to its close and the shadows of the evening

thickened. Then we made ready for our dreadful game, of which the stake


“Then tell his people that he had better be quick about it, or I shall

turn him out,” replied the proud Saduko.



Just at this moment the kraal gate opened and through it appeared

Umbezi, looking extremely fat and foolish; also, it struck me,

frightened, although this he tried to conceal.



“Who visits me here,” he said, “with so much--um--ceremony?” and with

the carved dancing-stick he carried he pointed doubtfully at the lines

of armed men. “Oh, it is you, is it, Saduko?” and he looked him up

and down, adding: “How grand you are to be sure. Have you been robbing

anybody? And you, too, Macumazahn. Well, _you_ do not look grand. You

look like an old cow that has been suckling two calves on the winter

veld. But tell me, what are all these warriors for? I ask because I have

not food for so many, especially as we have just had a feast here.”



“Fear nothing, Umbezi,” answered Saduko in his grandest manner. “I have

brought food for my own men. As for my business, it is simple. You asked

a hundred head of cattle as the lobola [that is, the marriage gift] of

your daughter, Mameena. They are there. Go send your servants to the

kraal and count them.”



“Oh, with pleasure,” Umbezi replied nervously, and he gave some orders

to certain men behind him. “I am glad to see that you have become rich

in this sudden fashion, Saduko, though how you have done so I cannot

understand.”



“Never mind how I have become rich,” answered Saduko. “I _am_ rich; that

is enough for the present. Be pleased to send for Mameena, for I would

talk with her.”



“Yes, yes, Saduko, I understand that you would talk with Mameena;

but”--and he looked round him desperately--“I fear that she is still

asleep. As you know, Mameena was always a late riser, and, what is more,

she hates to be disturbed. Don’t you think that you could come back,

say, to-morrow morning? She will be sure to be up by then; or, better

still, the day after?”



“In which hut is Mameena?” asked Saduko sternly, while I, smelling a


him, and have done?”



“For this reason, my son. There is trouble ahead in Zululand, and I do

not wish to kill those who may help us in that hour, nor do I wish

them to become our enemies. I wish that they may be our friends; and

therefore it seems to me wise, when we find a seed of greatness, to

water it, and not to dig it up or plant it in a neighbour’s garden. From

his deeds I believe that this Saduko is such a seed.”



“Our father has spoken,” said Umbelazi; “and I like Saduko, who is a man

of mettle and good blood. Which of our sisters does our father propose

to give to him?”



“She who is named after the mother of our race, O Umbelazi; she whom

your own mother bore--your sister Nandie” (in English, “The Sweet”).



“A great gift, O my Father, since Nandie is both fair and wise. Also,

what does she think of this matter?”



“She thinks well of it, Umbelazi, for she has seen Saduko and taken a

liking to him. She told me herself that she wishes no other husband.”



“Is it so?” replied Umbelazi indifferently. “Then if the King commands,

and the King’s daughter desires, what more is there to be said?”



“Much, I think,” broke in Cetewayo. “I hold that it is out of place that

this little man, who has but conquered a little tribe by borrowing

the wit of Macumazahn here, should be rewarded not only with a

chieftainship, but with the hand of the wisest and most beautiful of the

King’s daughters, even though Umbelazi,” he added, with a sneer, “should

be willing to throw him his own sister like a bone to a passing dog.”



“Who threw the bone, Cetewayo?” asked Umbelazi, awaking out of his

indifference. “Was it the King, or was it I, who never heard of the

matter till this moment? And who are we that we should question the

King’s decrees? Is it our business to judge or to obey?”



“Has Saduko perchance made you a present of some of those cattle which

to do some trading, but, as I was in no particular hurry, my plan was

to go round by Masapo’s, and see for myself how it fared between him and

Mameena. Indeed, I reached the borders of the Amasomi territory, whereof

Masapo was chief, by evening, and camped there. But with the night came

reflection, and reflection told me that I should do well to keep clear

of Mameena and her domestic complications, if she had any. So I changed

my mind, and next morning trekked on to Nodwengu by the only route

that my guides reported to be practicable, one which took me a long way

round.



That day, owing to the roughness of the road--if road it could be

called--and an accident to one of the wagons, we only covered about

fifteen miles, and as night fell were obliged to outspan at the first

spot where we could find water. When the oxen had been unyoked I

looked about me, and saw that we were in a place that, although I had

approached it from a somewhat different direction, I recognised at once

as the mouth of the Black Kloof, in which, over a year before, I had

interviewed Zikali the Little and Wise. There was no mistaking the

spot; that blasted valley, with the piled-up columns of boulders and the

overhanging cliff at the end of it, have, so far as I am aware, no exact

counterparts in Africa.



I sat upon the box of the first wagon, eating my food, which consisted

of some biltong and biscuit, for I had not bothered to shoot any game

that day, which was very hot, and wondering whether Zikali were still

alive, also whether I should take the trouble to walk up the kloof and

find out. On the whole I thought that I would not, as the place repelled

me, and I did not particularly wish to hear any more of his prophecies

and fierce, ill-omened talk. So I just sat there studying the wonderful

effect of the red evening light pouring up between those walls of

fantastic rocks.



Presently I perceived, far away, a single human figure--whether it were

man or woman I could not tell--walking towards me along the path which


he was going to show fight. If he had any such intention, however, he

changed his mind, for without a word, or showing any resentment at the

insult which he had received, he broke into a heavy run and vanished

among the evening shadows. Mameena, who had observed all, broke into

something else, namely, a laugh.



“Piff! My husband is big yet not brave,” she said, “but I do not think

he meant to hurt you, woman.”



“Do you speak to me, wife of Masapo?” asked Nandie with gentle dignity,

as she gained her feet and picked up the stunned child. “If so, my name

and titles are the Inkosazana Nandie, daughter of the Black One and wife

of the lord Saduko.”



“Your pardon,” replied Mameena humbly, for she was cowed at once. “I did

not know who you were, Inkosazana.”



“It is granted, wife of Masapo. Macumazahn, give me water, I pray you,

that I may bathe the head of my child.”



The water was brought, and presently, when the little one seemed all

right again, for it had only received a scratch, Nandie thanked me and

departed to her own huts, saying with a smile to her husband as she

passed that there was no need for him to accompany her, as she had

servants waiting at the kraal gate. So Saduko stayed behind, and Mameena

stayed also. He talked with me for quite a long while, for he had much

to tell me, although all the time I felt that his heart was not in his

talk. His heart was with Mameena, who sat there and smiled continually

in her mysterious way, only putting in a word now and again, as though

to excuse her presence.



At length she rose and said with a sigh that she must be going back to

where the Amasomi were in camp, as Masapo would need her to see to his

food. By now it was quite dark, although I remember that from time to

time the sky was lit up by sheet lightning, for a storm was brewing. As

I expected, Saduko rose also, saying that he would see me on the morrow,

and the crops of the vultures after they have ‘gone beyond’ by the

bridge of spears.”



Now, at this awful speech (which, both because of all that it implied of

bloodshed and civil war and of the wild, wailing voice in which it was

spoken, that seemed quite different from Zikali’s, caused everyone who

heard it, including myself, I am afraid, to gasp and shiver) the King

sprang from his stool as though to put a stop to such doctoring. Then,

after his fashion, he changed his mind and sat down again. But Zikali,

taking no heed, went to the third set of marks and studied them.



“It would seem,” he said, “that I am awakened from sleep in my Black

House yonder to tell of a very little matter, that might well have been

dealt with by any common Nyanga born but yesterday. Well, I have taken

my fee, and I will earn it, although I thought that I was brought here

to speak of great matters, such as the death of princes and the fortunes

of peoples. Is it desired that my Spirit should speak of wizardries in

this town of Nodwengu?”



“Izwa!” said the chorus in a loud voice.



Zikali nodded his great head and seemed to talk with the dust, waiting

now and again for an answer.



“Good,” he said; “they are many, and the dust has told them all to me.

Oh, they are very many”--and he glared around him--“so many that if I

spoke them all the hyenas of the hills would be full to-night--”



Here the audience began to show signs of great apprehension.



“But,” looking down at the dust and turning his head sideways, “what

do you say, what do you say? Speak more plainly, Little Voices, for you

know I grow deaf. Oh! now I understand. The matter is even smaller than

I thought. Just of one wizard--”



“Izwa!” (loudly).



“--just of a few deaths and some sicknesses.”



“Izwa!”



“Just of one death, one principal death.”



“Izwa!” (very loudly).



“Ah! So we have it--one death. Now, was it a man?”


and everything, completely ignoring the head-wife. For a while Nandie

bore it with patience, but at length she took advantage of a pause in

the conversation to say in her firm, low voice:



“This is my hut, daughter of Umbezi, a thing which you remember well

enough when it is a question whether Saduko, our husband, shall visit

you or me. Can you not remember it now when I would speak with the white

chief, Watcher-by-Night, who has been so good as to take the trouble to

come to see me?”



On hearing these words Mameena leapt up in a rage, and I must say I

never saw her look more lovely.



“You insult me, daughter of Panda, as you always try to do, because you

are jealous of me.”



“Your pardon, sister,” replied Nandie. “Why should I, who am Saduko’s

Inkosikazi, and, as you say, daughter of Panda, the King, be jealous

of the widow of the wizard, Masapo, and the daughter of the headman,

Umbezi, whom it has pleased our husband to take into his house to be the

companion of his leisure?”



“Why? Because you know that Saduko loves my little finger more than

he does your whole body, although you are of the King’s blood and have

borne him brats,” she answered, looking at the infant with no kindly

eye.



“It may be so, daughter of Umbezi, for men have their fancies, and

without doubt you are fair. Yet I would ask you one thing--if Saduko

loves you so much, how comes it he trusts you so little that you must

learn any matter of weight by listening at my door, as I found you doing

the other day?”



“Because you teach him not to do so, O Nandie. Because you are ever

telling him not to consult with me, since she who has betrayed one

husband may betray another. Because you make him believe my place is

that of his toy, not that of his companion, and this although I am

cleverer than you and all your House tied into one bundle, as you may

find out some day.”

since the duels were more desperate and prolonged.



Everywhere men were rolling on the ground, hitting at each other’s

heads, until at last some blow went home and one of them threw out his

arms and lay still, either dead or senseless. Well, there I sat watching

all this shocking business from the saddle of my trained shooting pony,

which stood like a stone, till presently I became aware of two great

fellows rushing at me with their eyes starting out of their heads and

shouting as they came:



“Kill Umbelazi’s white man! Kill! Kill!”



Then, seeing that the matter was urgent and that it was a question of my

life or theirs, I came into action.



In my hand I held a double-barrelled shotgun loaded with what we used

to call “loopers,” or B.B. shot, of which but a few went to each charge,

for I had hoped to meet with a small buck on my way to camp. So, as

these soldiers came, I lifted the gun and fired, the right barrel at

one of them and the left barrel at the other, aiming in each case at the

centre of the small dancing shields, which from force of habit they held

stretched out to protect their throats and breasts. At that distance, of

course, the loopers sank through the soft hide of the shields and deep

into the bodies of those who carried them, so that both of them dropped

dead, the left-hand man being so close that he fell against my pony, his

uplifted kerry striking me upon the thigh and bruising me.



When I saw what I had done, and that my danger was over for the moment,

without waiting to reload I dug the spurs into my horse’s sides and

galloped off to Nodwengu, passing between the groups of struggling men.

On arriving unharmed at the town, I went instantly to the royal huts and

demanded to see the King, who sent word that I was to be admitted.

On coming before him I told him exactly what had happened--that I had

killed two of Cetewayo’s men in order to save my own life, and on that


“Aye, Macumazahn,” he answered, “I, too, think that ufulatewe idhlozi

[that is, his own Spirit] has turned its back on him. Also I think that

Saduko is no good councillor. Indeed, were I the prince,” added the old

fellow shrewdly, “I would not keep him whose wife I had stolen as the

whisperer in my ear.”



“Nor I, Maputa,” I answered as I bade him good-bye.



Two days later, early in the morning, Maputa came to me again and said

that Panda wished to see me. I went to the head of the kraal, where I

found the King seated and before him the captains of the royal Amawombe

regiment.



“Watcher-by-Night,” he said, “I have news that the great battle between

my sons will take place within a few days. Therefore I am sending down

this, my own royal regiment, under the command of Maputa the skilled in

war to spy out the battle, and I pray that you will go with it, that

you may give to the General Maputa and to the captains the help of

your wisdom. Now these are my orders to you, Maputa, and to you, O

captains--that you take no part in the fight unless you should see that

the Elephant, my son Umbelazi, is fallen into a pit, and that then you

shall drag him out if you can and save him alive. Now repeat my words to

me.”



So they repeated the words, speaking with one voice.



“Your answer, O Macumazana,” he said when they had spoken.



“O King, I have told you that I will go--though I do not like war--and I

will keep my promise,” I replied.



“Then make ready, Macumazahn, and be back here within an hour, for the

regiment marches ere noon.”



So I went up to my wagons and handed them over to the care of some men

whom Panda had sent to take charge of them. Also Scowl and I saddled our

horses, for this faithful fellow insisted upon accompanying me, although

I advised him to stay behind, and got out our rifles and as much

ammunition as we could possibly need, and with them a few other

the finish of this fight. Farewell.”



Then off he hurried, followed by his orderlies and staff-officers.



I never saw him again alive, though I think that once in after years I

did meet his idhlozi in his kraal under strange circumstances. But that

has nothing to do with this history.



As for me, having reloaded, I mounted my horse again, being afraid lest,

if I went on shooting, I should miss and spoil my reputation. Besides,

what was the use of killing more men unless I was obliged? There were

plenty ready to do that.



Another minute, and the regiment in front of us began to move, while the

other two behind it ostentatiously sat themselves down in their ranks,

to show that they did not mean to spoil sport. The fight was to begin

with a duel between about six thousand men.



“Good!” muttered the warrior who was nearest me. “They are in our bag.”



“Aye,” answered another, “those little boys” (used as a term of

contempt) “are going to learn their last lesson.”



For a few seconds there was silence, while the long ranks leant forward

between the hedges of lean and cruel spears. A whisper went down the

line; it sounded like the noise of wind among trees, and was the signal

to prepare. Next a far-off voice shouted some word, which was repeated

again and again by other voices before and behind me. I became aware

that we were moving, quite slowly at first, then more quickly. Being

lifted above the ranks upon my horse I could see the whole advance,

and the general aspect of it was that of a triple black wave, each wave

crowned with foam--the white plumes and shields of the Amawombe were

the foam--and alive with sparkles of light--their broad spears were the

light.



We were charging now--and oh! the awful and glorious excitement of that

charge! Oh, the rush of the bending plumes and the dull thudding of

eight thousand feet! The Usutu came up the slope to meet us. In silence

we went, and in silence they came. We drew near to each other. Now we


you for this mighty deed, O Umbezi?”



“A great reward, O Terrible One,” began Umbezi, but in an awful voice

Cetewayo bade him be silent.



“Yes,” he said, “a great reward. Hearken, Jackal and Traitor. Your own

words bear witness against you. You, _you_ have dared to lift your hand

against the blood-royal, and with your foul tongue to heap lies and

insults upon the name of the mighty dead.”



Now, understanding at last, Umbezi began to babble excuses, yes, and to

declare that all his tale was false. His fat cheeks fell in, he sank to

his knees.



But Cetewayo only spat towards the man, after his fashion when enraged,

and looked round him till his eye fell upon Saduko.



“Saduko,” he said, “take away this slayer of the Prince, who boasts that

he is red with my own blood, and when he is dead cast him into the river

from that rock on which he says he stabbed Panda’s son.”



Saduko looked round him wildly and hesitated.



“Take him away,” thundered Cetewayo, “and return ere dark to make report

to me.”



Then, at a sign from the Prince, soldiers flung themselves upon the

miserable Umbezi and dragged him thence, Saduko going with them; nor was

the poor liar ever seen again. As he passed by me he called to me, for

Mameena’s sake, to save him; but I could only shake my head and bethink

me of the warning I had once given to him as to the fate of traitors.



It may be said that this story comes straight from the history of Saul

and David, but I can only answer that it happened. Circumstances that

were not unlike ended in a similar tragedy, that is all. What David’s

exact motives were, naturally I cannot tell; but it is easy to guess

those of Cetewayo, who, although he could make war upon his brother to

secure the throne, did not think it wise to let it go abroad that the

royal blood might be lightly spilt. Also, knowing that I was a witness

of the Prince’s death, he was well aware that Umbezi was but a



“Be pleased to summon my woman, Nahana, who waits without.”



The man went, and presently returned with an elderly female who, it

appeared, had been Nandie’s nurse, and, never having married, owing to

some physical defect, had always remained in her service, a person well

known and much respected in her humble walk of life.



“Nahana,” said Nandie, “you are brought here that you may repeat to the

King and his council a tale which you told to me as to the coming of

a certain woman into my hut before the death of my first-born son, and

what she did there. Say first, is this woman present here?”



“Aye, Inkosazana,” answered Nahana, “yonder she sits. Who could mistake

her?” and she pointed to Mameena, who was listening to every word

intently, as a dog listens at the mouth of an ant-bear hole when the

beast is stirring beneath.



“Then what of the woman and her deeds?” asked Panda.



“Only this, O King. Two nights before the child that is dead was taken

ill, I saw Mameena creep into the hut of the lady Nandie, I who was

asleep alone in a corner of the big hut out of reach of the light of the

fire. At the time the lady Nandie was away from the hut with her son.

Knowing the woman for Mameena, the wife of Masapo, who was on friendly

terms with the Inkosazana, whom I supposed she had come to visit, I did

not declare myself; nor did I take any particular note when I saw her

sprinkle a little mat upon which the babe, Saduko’s son, was wont to

be laid, with some medicine, because I had heard her promise to the

Inkosazana a powder which she said would drive away insects. Only, when

I saw her throw some of this powder into the vessel of warm water that

stood by the fire, to be used for the washing of the child, and place

something, muttering certain words that I could not catch, in the straw

of the doorway, I thought it strange, and was about to question her when

she left the hut. As it happened, O King, but a little while afterwards,


heart, not that of a woman. Well, because I was too kind I must die;

and, after all is said, it is well to die, who go hence awaited by

thousands upon thousands that I have sent before me, and who shall be

greeted presently by your son, Indhlovu-ene-Sihlonti, and his warriors,

greeted as the Inkosazana of Death, with red, lifted spears and with the

royal salute!



“Now, I have spoken. Walk your little road, O King and Prince and

Councillors, till you reach the gulf into which I sink, that yawns for

all of you. O King, when you meet me again at the bottom of that gulf,

what a tale you will have to tell me, you who are but the shadow of a

king, you whose heart henceforth must be eaten out by a worm that is

called _Love-of-the-Lost_. O Prince and Conqueror Cetewayo, what a tale

you will have to tell me when I greet you at the bottom of that gulf,

you who will bring your nation to a wreck and at last die as I must

die--only the servant of others and by the will of others. Nay, ask me

not how. Ask old Zikali, my master, who saw the beginning of your House

and will see its end. Oh, yes, as you say, I am a witch, and I know, I

know! Come, I am spent. You men weary me, as men have always done, being

but fools whom it is so easy to make drunk, and who when drunk are so

unpleasing. Piff! I am tired of you sober and cunning, and I am tired of

you drunken and brutal, you who, after all, are but beasts of the field

to whom Mvelingangi, the Creator, has given heads which can think, but

which always think wrong.



“Now, King, before you unchain your dogs upon me, I ask one moment.

I said that I hated all men, yet, as you know, no woman can tell the

truth--quite. There is a man whom I do not hate, whom I never hated,

whom I think I love because he would not love me. He sits there,” and to

my utter dismay, and the intense interest of that company, she pointed

