what seemed to be an absolutely desperate quest for over twenty years,

until, with some humble assistance on my part, he brought it to a

curiously successful issue. But all this tale is told in “The Holy

Flower,” and I only allude to it here, that is at present, to explain

how I came to be in England.



While in this country I stayed for a few days with Scroope, or, rather,

with his fiancée and her people, at a fine house in Essex. (I called it

Essex to avoid the place being identified, but really it was one of the

neighbouring counties.) During my visit I was taken to see a much finer

place, a splendid old castle with brick gateway towers, that had been

wonderfully well restored and turned into a most luxurious modern

dwelling. Let us call it “Ragnall,” the seat of a baron of that name.



I had heard a good deal about Lord Ragnall, who, according to all

accounts, seemed a kind of Admirable Crichton. He was said to be

wonderfully handsome, a great scholar--he had taken a double first at

college; a great athlete--he had been captain of the Oxford boat at the

University race; a very promising speaker who had already made his mark

in the House of Lords; a sportsman who had shot tigers and other large

game in India; a poet who had published a successful volume of verse

under a pseudonym; a good solider until he left the Service; and lastly,

a man of enormous wealth, owning, in addition to his estates, several

coal mines and an entire town in the north of England.



“Dear me!” I said when the list was finished, “he seems to have been

born with a whole case of gold spoons in his mouth. I hope one of them

will not choke him,” adding: “Perhaps he will be unlucky in love.”



“That’s just where he is most lucky of all,” answered the young lady to

whom I was talking--it was Scroope’s fiancée, Miss Manners--“for he is

engaged to a lady that, I am told, is the loveliest, sweetest, cleverest

girl in all England, and they absolutely adore each other.”


again.



“It is rather a long story,” he answered, “but, to put it shortly, years

ago, when I was travelling in Africa, Mr. Quatermain and I had a dispute

as to a sum of £5 which he thought I owed him, and to save argument

about a trifle we have agreed that I should shoot against him for it

to-day.”



“Indeed,” said Lord Ragnall rather seriously, for I could see that

he did not believe Van Koop’s statement as to the amount of the bet;

perhaps he had heard more than we thought. “To be frank, Sir Junius, I

don’t much care for betting--for that’s what it comes to--here. Also I

think Mr. Quatermain said yesterday that he had never shot pheasants in

England, so the match seems scarcely fair. However, you gentlemen know

your own business best. Only I must tell you both that if money is

concerned, I shall have to set someone whose decision will be final to

count your birds and report the number to me.”



“Agreed,” said Van Koop, or, rather, Sir Junius; but I answered nothing,

for, to tell the truth, already I felt ashamed of the whole affair.



As it happened, Lord Ragnall and I walked together ahead of the others,

to the first covert, which was half a mile or more away.



“You have met Sir Junius before?” he said to me interrogatively.



“I have met Mr. van Koop before,” I answered, “about twelve years

since, shortly after which he vanished from South Africa, where he was a

well-known and very successful--speculator.”



“To reappear here. Ten years ago he bought a large property in this

neighbourhood. Three years ago he became a baronet.”



“How did a man like Van Koop become a baronet?” I inquired.



“By purchase, I believe.”



“By purchase! Are honours in England purchased?”



“You are delightfully innocent, Mr. Quatermain, as a hunter from Africa

should be,” said Lord Ragnall, laughing. “Your friend----”



“Excuse me, Lord Ragnall, I am a very humble person, not so elevated,

indeed, as that gamekeeper of yours; therefore I should not venture to

and the roar of the gale, or both; also in rubbing my shoulder with

ointment, for it was sore from the recoil of the guns. Then Scroope

appeared, as, being unable to find my way about the long passages of

that great old castle, I had asked him to do, and we descended together

to the large drawing-room.



It was a splendid apartment, only used upon state occasions, lighted,

I should think, with at least two or three hundred wax candles, which

threw a soft glow over the panelled and pictured walls, the priceless

antique furniture, and the bejewelled ladies who were gathered there. To

my mind there never was and never will be any artificial light to equal

that of wax candles in sufficient quantity. The company was large; I

think thirty sat down to dinner that night, which was given to introduce

Lord Ragnall’s future wife to the neighbourhood, whereof she was

destined to be the leader.



Miss Manners, who was looking very happy and charming in her jewels and

fine clothes, joined us at once, and informed Scroope that “she” was

just coming; the maid in the cloakroom had told her so.



“Is she?” replied Scroope indifferently. “Well, so long as you have come

I don’t care about anyone else.”



Then he told her she was looking beautiful, and stared at her with such

affection that I fell back a step or two and contemplated a picture of

Judith vigorously engaged in cutting off the head of Holofernes.



Presently the large door at the end of the room was thrown open and the

immaculate Savage, who was acting as a kind of master of the ceremonies,

announced in well-bred but penetrating tones, “Lady Longden and the

Honourable Miss Holmes.” I stared, like everybody else, but for a while

her ladyship filled my eye. She was an ample and, to my mind, rather

awful-looking person, clad in black satin--she was a widow--and very

large diamonds. Her hair was white, her nose was hooked, her dark eyes

were penetrating, and she had a bad cold in her head. That was all I

found time to notice about her, for suddenly her daughter came into my




“O Slayer of evil men and beasts!” they went on, in their rich-voiced,

monotonous chant, “who, as our magic tells us, are destined to deliver

our land from the terrible scourge, we greet you, we bow before you, we

acknowledge you as our lord and brother, to whom we vow safety among us

and in the desert, to whom we promise a great reward.”



Again they bowed, once, twice, thrice; then stood silent before me with

folded arms.



“What on earth are they saying?” asked Scroope. “I could catch a few

words”--he knew a little kitchen Zulu--“but not much.”



I told him briefly while the others listened.



“What does Mameena mean?” asked Miss Holmes, with a horrible acuteness.

“Is it a woman’s name?”



Hearing her, Harût and Marût bowed as though doing reverence to that

name. I am sorry to say that at this point I grew confused, though

really there was no reason why I should, and muttered something about a

native girl who had made trouble in her day.



Miss Holmes and the other ladies looked at me with amused disbelief,

and to my dismay the venerable Harût turned to Miss Holmes, and with his

inevitable bow, said in broken English:



“Mameena very beautiful woman, perhaps more beautiful than you, lady.

Mameena love the white lord Macumazana. She love him while she live, she

love him now she dead. She tell me so again just now. You ask white lord

tell you pretty story of how he kiss her before she kill herself.”



Needless to say all this very misleading information was received by the

audience with an attention that I can but call rapt, and in a kind of

holy silence which was broken only by a sudden burst of sniggering on

the part of Scroope. I favoured him with my fiercest frown. Then I fell

upon that venerable villain Harût, and belaboured him in Bantu, while

the audience listened as intently as though they understood.



I asked him what he meant by coming here to asperse my character. I

asked him who the deuce he was. I asked him how he came to know anything

sleeping place might be, nor, for patent reasons, was it desirable

that I should disturb the house and so create talk. In this dilemma I

remembered that Lord Ragnall’s confidential servant, Mr. Savage, when he

conducted me to my room on the previous night, which he made a point of

doing perhaps because he wished to talk over the matter of the snakes

that had found their way into his pockets, had shown me a bell in it

which he said rang outside his door. He called it an “emergency bell.” I

remarked idly that it was improbable that I should have any occasion for

its use.



“Who knows, sir?” said Mr. Savage prophetically. “There are folk who say

that this old castle is haunted, which after what I have seen to-night

I can well believe. If you should chance to meet a ghost looking, let us

say, like those black villains, Harum and Scarum, or whatever they call

themselves--well, sir, two’s better company than one.”



I considered that bell but was loath to ring it for the reasons I have

given. Then I went outside the room and looked. As I had hoped might be

the case, there ran the wire on the face of the wall connected along its

length by other wires with the various rooms it passed.



I set to work and followed that wire. It was not an easy job; indeed

once or twice it reminded me of that story of the old Greek hero who

found his way through a labyrinth by means of a silken thread. I forget

whether it were a bull or a lady he was looking for, but with care and

perseverance he found one or the other, or it may have been both.



Down staircases and various passages I went with my eye glued upon the

wire, which occasionally got mixed up with other wires, till at length

it led me through a swing door covered with red baize into what appeared

to be a modern annexe to the castle. Here at last it terminated on

the spring of an alarming-looking and deep-throated bell that hung

immediately over a certain door.




again I must seek those adventures which I had forsworn when my evil

star shone so brightly over a gold mine. What was it to be? Elephants, I

supposed, since these are the only creatures worth killing from a money

point of view. But most of my old haunts had been more or less shot out.

The competition of younger professionals, of wandering backveld Boers

and even of poaching natives who had obtained guns, was growing severe.

If I went at all I should have to travel farther afield.



Whilst I meditated thus, turning over the comparative advantages

or disadvantages of various possible hunting grounds in my mind, my

attention was caught by a kind of cough that seemed to proceed from the

farther side of a large gardenia bush. It was not a human cough, but

rather resembled that made by a certain small buck at night, probably

to signal to its mate, which of course it could not be as there were no

buck within several miles. Yet I knew it came from a human throat, for

had I not heard it before in many an hour of difficulty and danger?



“Draw near, Hans,” I said in Dutch, and instantly out of a clump of

aloes that grew in front of the pomegranate hedge, crept the withered

shape of the old Hottentot, as a big yellow snake might do. Why he

should choose this method of advance instead of that offered by the

garden path I did not know, but it was quite in accordance with his

secretive nature, inherited from a hundred generations of ancestors who

spent their lives avoiding the observation of murderous foes.



He squatted down in front of me, staring in a vacant way at the fierce

ball of the westering sun without blinking an eyelid, just as a vulture

does.



“You look to me as though you had been fighting, Hans,” I said. “The

crown of your hat is knocked out; you are splashed with mud and there is

the mark of a stick upon your left side.”



“Yes, Baas. You are right as usual, Baas. I had a quarrel with a man




“‘Yes, George, I will go to Egypt. I should like to go to Egypt.’ Then

she went on playing with the necklace and talking to the imaginary

child.



“Again on the following morning as I came into her room to kiss her, she

exclaimed,



“‘When do we start for Egypt? Let it be soon.’



“With these sayings the doctors were very pleased, declaring that they

showed signs of a returning interest in life and begging me not to

thwart her wish.



“So I gave way and in the end we went to Egypt together with Lady

Longden, who insisted upon accompanying us although she is a wretched

sailor. At Cairo a large dahabeeyah that I had hired in advance, manned

by an excellent crew and a guard of four soldiers, was awaiting us. In

it we started up the Nile. For a month or more all went well; also to

my delight my wife seemed now and again to show signs of returning

intelligence. Thus she took some interest in the sculptures on the walls

of the temples, about which she had been very fond of reading when in

health. I remember that only a few days before the--the catastrophe,

she pointed out one of them to me, it was of Isis and the infant Horus,

saying, ‘Look, George, the holy Mother and the holy Child,’ and then

bowed to it reverently as she might have done to an altar. At length

after passing the First Cataract and the Island of Philæ we came to

the temple of Abu Simbel, opposite to which our boat was moored. On the

following morning we explored the temple at daybreak and saw the sun

strike upon the four statues which sit at its farther end, spending

the rest of that day studying the colossal figures of Rameses that are

carved upon its face and watching some cavalcades of Arabs mounted upon

camels travelling along the banks of the Nile.



“My wife was unusually quiet that afternoon. For hour after hour she sat

still upon the deck, gazing first at the mouth of the rock-hewn temple

and the mighty figures which guard it and then at the surrounding




“The Baas called me,” he said when it was drawing to his satisfaction,

“what does Baas want of Hans?”



“Light in darkness!” I replied, playing on his native name, and

proceeded to set out the whole case to him.



He listened without a word, then asked for a small glass of gin, which

I gave him doubtfully. Having swallowed this at a gulp as though it were

water, he delivered himself briefly to this effect:



“I think the Baas will do well not to go to Kilwa, since it means

waiting for a ship, or hiring one; also there may be more slave-traders

there by now who will bear him no love because of a lesson he taught

them a while ago. On the other hand the road through Zululand is open,

though it be long, and there the name of Macumazana is one well known.

I think also that the Baas would do well not to take too many men, who

make marching slow, only a wagon or two and some drivers which might be

sent back when they can go no farther. From Zululand messengers can be

dispatched to the Mazitu, who love you, and Bausi or whoever is king

there to-day will order bearers to meet us on the road, until which time

we can hire other bearers in Zululand. The old woman at Beza-Town told

me, moreover, as you will remember, that the Kendah are a very great

people who live by themselves and will allow none to enter their land,

which is bordered by deserts. Therefore no force that you could take

with you and feed upon a road without water would be strong enough to

knock down their gates like an elephant, and it seems better that you

should try to creep through them like a wise snake, although they appear

to be shut in your face. Perhaps also they will not be shut since did

you not say that two of their great doctors promised to meet you and

guide you through them?”



“Yes,” I interrupted, “I dare say it will be easier to get in than to

get out of Kendahland.”



the night, to be precise, at exactly two in the morning, I was awakened

by Hans, who slept at the back of my shanty, into which he had crept

through a hole in the faggots, exclaiming in a frightened voice,



“Open your eyes and look, Baas. There are two _spooks_ waiting to see

you outside, Baas.”



Very cautiously I lifted myself a little and stared out into the

moonlight. There, seated about five paces from the open end of the hut

were the “spooks” sure enough, two white-robed figures squatting silent

and immovable on the ground. At first I was frightened. Then I bethought

me of thieves and felt for my Colt pistol under the rug that served me

as a pillow. As I got hold of the handle, however, a deep voice said:



“Is it your custom, O Macumazana, Watcher-by-Night, to receive guests

with bullets?”



Now thought I to myself, who is there in the world who could see a man

catch hold of the handle of a pistol in the recesses of a dark place and

under a blanket at night, except the owner of that voice which I seemed

to remember hearing in a certain drawing-room in England?



“Yes, Harût,” I answered with an unconcerned yawn, “when the guests come

in such a doubtful fashion and in the middle of the night. But as you

are here at last, will you be so good as to tell us why you have kept us

waiting all this time? Is that your way of fulfilling an engagement?”



“O Lord Macumazana,” answered Harût, for of course it was he, in quite a

perturbed tone, “I offer to you our humble apologies. The truth is

that when we heard of your arrival at Beza-Town we started, or tried to

start, from hundreds of miles away to keep our tryst with you here as

we promised we would do. But we are mortal, Macumazana, and accidents

intervened. Thus, when we had ascertained the weight of your baggage,

camels had to be collected to carry it, which were grazing at a

distance. Also it was necessary to send forward to dig out a certain


“You see how it stands,” I said to Ragnall. “We have been brought here

to fight for our friends, Harût, Marût and Co., against their rebellious

subjects, or rather the king who reigns jointly with them.”



“It looks like it,” he replied quietly, “but doubtless we shall find

out the truth in time and meanwhile speculation is no good. Do you go to

bed, Quatermain, I will watch till midnight and then wake you.”



That night passed in safety. Next day we marched before the dawn,

passing through country that grew continually better watered and more

fertile, though it was still open plain but sloping upwards ever more

steeply. On this plain I saw herds of antelopes and what in the distance

looked like cattle, but no human being. Before evening we camped where

there was good water and plenty of food for the camels.



While the camp was being set Harût came and invited us to follow him to

the outposts, whence he said we should see a view. We walked with him, a

matter of not more than a quarter of a mile to the head of that rise up

which we had been travelling all day, and thence perceived one of

the most glorious prospects on which my eyes have fallen in all great

Africa. From where we stood the land sloped steeply for a matter of ten

or fifteen miles, till finally the fall ended in a vast plain like to

the bottom of a gigantic saucer, that I presume in some far time of the

world’s history was once an enormous lake. A river ran east and west

across this plain and into it fell tributaries. Far beyond this river

the contours of the country rose again till, many, many miles away,

there appeared a solitary hill, tumulus-shaped, which seemed to be

covered with bush.



Beyond and surrounding this hill was more plain which with the aid of my

powerful glasses was, we could see, bordered at last by a range of

great mountains, looking like a blue line pencilled across the northern

distance. To the east and west the plain seemed to be illimitable.

Obviously its soil was of a most fertile character and supported numbers

King, and have accepted them. Therefore discuss them no more. What I

have promised I will keep. What I have given I give, neither greater nor

less by the weight of a hair.”



“So be it, O King,” answered Marût with his usual smile, which nothing

ever seemed to disturb. “Only remember that if those terms are broken

either in the letter or in the spirit, especially the spirit” (that is

the best rendering I can give of his word), “the manifold curses of

the Child will fall upon you and yours. Yes, though you kill us all by

treachery, still those curses will fall.”



“May Jana take the Child and all who worship it,” exclaimed the king

with evident irritation.



“In the end, O King, Jana will take the Child and its followers--or

the Child will take Jana and his followers. Which of these things must

happen is known to the Child alone, and perchance to its prophets.

Meanwhile, for every one of those of the Child I think that three of the

followers of Jana, or more, lie dead upon this field. Also the caravan

is now out of your reach with two of the white lords and many of such

tubes which deal death, like that which we have surrendered to you.

Therefore because we are helpless, do not think that the Child is

helpless. Jana must have been asleep, O King, or you would have set your

trap better.”



I thought that this coolly insolent speech would have produced some

outburst, but in fact it seemed to have an opposite effect. Making no

reply to it, Simba said almost humbly:



“I come to drink the cup of peace with you and the white lord, O

Prophet. Afterwards we can talk. Give me water, slave.”



Then a man filled the great ivory cup with water from the skin he

carried. Simba took it and having sprinkled a little upon the ground,

I suppose as an offering, drank from the cup, doubtless to show that it

was not poisoned. Watching carefully, I made sure that he swallowed what

he drank by studying the motions of his throat. Then he handed the cup




An hour or so later the usual fire appeared in the marketplace, round

which the usual figures flitted dimly. The sight of them fascinated

me, although I did not want to look, fearing what I might see. Luckily,

however, we were too far off to discern anything at night.



While these unholy ceremonies were in progress the climax came, that is

so far as the weather was concerned. Of a sudden a great gale sprang

up, a gale of icy wind such as in Southern Africa sometimes precedes

a thunderstorm. It blew for half an hour or more, then lulled. Now

lightning flashed across the heavens, and by the glare of it we

perceived that all the population of Simba Town seemed to be gathered in

the market-place. At least there were some thousands of them, talking,

gesticulating, pointing at the sky.



A few minutes later there came a great crash of thunder, of which it

was impossible to locate the sound, for it rolled from everywhere. Then

suddenly something hard struck the roof by my side and rebounded, to be

followed next moment by a blow upon my shoulder which nearly knocked me

flat, although I was well protected by the skin rugs.



“Down the stair!” I called. “They are stoning us,” and suited the action

to the word.



Ten seconds later we were both in the room, crouched in its farther

corner, for the stones or whatever they were seemed to be following us.

I struck a match, of which fortunately I had some, together with my pipe

and a good pocketful of tobacco--my only solace in those days--and, as

it burned up, saw first that blood was running down Marût’s face,

and secondly, that these stones were great lumps of ice, some of them

weighing several ounces, which hopped about the floor like live things.



“Hailstorm!” remarked Marût with his accustomed smile.



“Hell storm!” I replied, “for whoever saw hail like that before?”



Then the match burnt out and conversation came to an end for the reason

that we could no longer hear each other speak. The hail came down with

the third, that I did not think of it at once; the fourth, that Jana

had not yet seen me, and I had no craving to introduce myself to him

personally; and the fifth and greatest, that I was so paralysed with

fear that I did not feel as though I could lift myself from the ground.

Everything about me seemed to be dead, except my powers of observation,

which were painfully alive.



Of a sudden Marût gave up. Less than a stone’s throw from me he wheeled

round and, facing Jana, hurled at him some fearful and concentrated

curse, of which all that I could distinguish were the words: “The

Child!”



Oddly enough it seemed to have an effect upon the furious rogue, which

halted in its rush and, putting its four feet together, slid a few paces

nearer and stood still. It was just as though the beast had understood

the words and were considering them. If so, their effect was to rouse

him to perfect madness. He screamed terribly; he lashed his sides with

his trunk; his red and wicked eyes rolled; foam flew from the cavern

of his open mouth; he danced upon his great feet, a sort of hideous

Scottish reel. Then he charged!



I shut my eyes for a moment. When I opened them again it was to see

poor Marût higher in the air than ever he flew before. I thought that

he would never come down, but he did at last with an awesome thud. Jana

went to him and very gently, now that he was dead, picked him up in his

trunk. I prayed that he might carry him away to some hiding-place and

leave me in peace. But not so. With slow and stately strides, rocking

the deceased Marût up and down in his trunk, as a nurse might rock

a baby, he marched on to the very stone where I lay, behind which I

suppose he had seen or smelt me all the time.



For quite a long while, it seemed more than a century, he stood over me,

studying me as though I interested him very much, the water of the lake




After this it seemed to me that I dreamed a long and very troubled dream

concerning all sorts of curious things which I cannot remember. At last

I opened my eyes and observed that I lay on a low bed raised about three

inches above the floor, in an Eastern-looking room, large and cool. It

had window-places in it but no windows, only grass mats hung upon a

rod which, I noted inconsequently, worked on a rough, wooden hinge, or

rather pin, that enabled the curtain to be turned back against the wall.



Through one of these window-places I saw at a little distance the slope

of the forest-covered hill, which reminded me of something to do with a

child--for the life of me I could not remember what. As I lay wondering

over the matter I heard a shuffling step which I recognized, and,

turning, saw Hans twiddling a new hat made of straw in his fingers.



“Hans,” I said, “where did you get that new hat?”



“They gave it me here, Baas,” he answered. “The Baas will remember that

the devil Jana ate the other.”



Then I did remember more or less, while Hans continued to twiddle the

hat. I begged him to put it on his head because it fidgeted me, and then

inquired where we were.



“In the Town of the Child, Baas, where they carried you after you had

seemed to die down yonder. A very nice town, where there is plenty to

eat, though, having been asleep for three days, you have had nothing

except a little milk and soup, which was poured down your throat with a

spoon whenever you seemed to half wake up for a while.”



“I was tired and wanted a long rest, Hans, and now I feel hungry. Tell

me, are the lord and Bena here also, or were they killed after all?”



“Yes, Baas, they are safe enough, and so are all our goods. They were

both with Harût when he saved us down by the village yonder, but you

went to sleep and did not see them. They have been nursing you ever

I nodded, and he went on:



“After this they all departed down the hill, smiling in a fashion that

disturbed me. We stood for a while irresolute, until it became quite

dark. I asked Savage what he thought we had better do, expecting that he

would say ‘Return to the town.’ To my surprise, he answered:



“‘Go on, of course, my lord. Don’t let those brutes say that we white

men daren’t walk a step without our guns. Indeed, in any case I mean to

go on, even if your lordship won’t.’



“Whilst he spoke he took a bull’s-eye lantern from his foodbag, which

had not been interfered with by the Kendah, and lit it. I stared at him

amazed, for the man seemed to be animated by some tremendous purpose.

Or rather it was as though a force from without had got hold of his will

and were pushing him on to an unknown end. Indeed his next words showed

that this was so, for he exclaimed:



“‘There is something drawing me into that cave, my lord. It may be

death; I think it is death, but whatever it be, go I must. Perhaps you

would do well to stop outside till I have seen.’



“I stepped forward to catch hold of the man, who I thought had gone mad,

as perhaps was the case. Before I could lay my hands on him he had

run rapidly to the mouth of the cave. Of course I followed, but when I

reached its entrance the star of light thrown forward by the bull’s-eye

lantern showed me that he was already about eight yards down the tunnel.

Then I heard a terrible hissing noise and Savage exclaiming: ‘Oh! my

God!’ twice over. As he spoke the lantern fell from his hand, but did

not go out, because, as you know, it is made to burn in any position.

I leapt forward and picked it from the ground, and while I was doing so

became aware that Savage was running still farther into the depths of

the cave. I lifted the lantern above my head and looked.



“This was what I saw: About ten paces from me was Savage with his arms


What if it had a wife and family living in that cave, every one of them

thirsting for vengeance?



Well, it was too late to hesitate now, but secretly I hoped that one

of the others would prefer to lead the way. We reached the place and

listened. It was silent as a tomb. Then that brave fellow Hans lit the

lantern and said:



“Do you stop here, Baases, while I go to look. If you hear anything

happen to me, you will have time to run away,” words that made me feel

somewhat ashamed of myself.



However, knowing that he was quick as a weasel and silent as a cat,

we let him go. A minute or two later suddenly he reappeared out of the

darkness, for he had turned the metal shield over the bull’s-eye of the

lantern, and even in that light I could see that he was grinning.



“It is all right, Baas,” he said. “The Father of Serpents has really

gone to that land whither he sent Bena, where no doubt he is now

roasting in the fires of hell, and I don’t see any others. Come and look

at him.”



So in we went and there, true enough, upon the floor of the cave lay the

huge reptile stone dead and already much swollen. I don’t know how long

it was, for part of its body was twisted into coils, so I will only say

that it was by far the most enormous snake that I have ever seen. It is

true that I have heard of such reptiles in different parts of

Africa, but hitherto I had always put them down as fabulous creatures

transformed into and worshipped as local gods. Also this particular

specimen was, I presume, of a new variety, since, according to Ragnall,

it both struck like the cobra or the adder, and crushed like the

boa-constrictor. It is possible, however, that he was mistaken on this

point; I do not know, since I had no time, or indeed inclination, to

examine its head for the poison fangs, and when next I passed that way

it was gone.



place, sit down and eat while I talk with priests. Be afraid nothing;

you quite safe.”



“Why should we be afraid? It is you who should be afraid, you who stole

the lady and brought Bena to his death. Do you not remember the words of

your own Oracle, Harût?”



“Yes, I know words, but how _you_ know them _that_ I not know,” he

replied.



Then he issued some orders, as a result of which a guard formed itself

about us and conducted us through the crowd and along the passage to the

second court of the temple, which was now empty. Here the guard left us

but remained at the mouth of the passage, keeping watch. Presently women

brought us food and drink, of which Hans and I partook heartily though

Ragnall, who was so near to his lost wife and yet so far away, could eat

but little. Mingled joy because after these months of arduous search he

found her yet alive, and fear lest she should again be taken from him

for ever, deprived him of all appetite.



While we ate, priests to the number of about a dozen, who I suppose had

been summoned by Harût, were admitted by the guard and, gathering out of

earshot of us between the altar and the sanctuary, entered on an earnest

discussion with him. Watching their faces I could see that there was a

strong difference of opinion between them, about half taking one view

on the matter of which they disputed, and half another. At length Harût

made some proposition to which they all agreed. Then the door of the

sanctuary was opened with a strange sort of key which one of the priests

produced, showing a dark interior in which gleamed a white object, I

suppose the statue of the Child. Harût and two others entered, the door

being closed behind them. About five minutes later they appeared again

and others, who listened earnestly and after renewed consultation

signified assent by holding up the right hand. Now one of the priests

walked to where we were and, bowing, begged us to advance to the altar.

This we did, and were stood in a line in front of it, Hans being set in


assistance of all the priests and of all the women and children who

were not engaged in provisioning the Mount, he built wall after wall and

redoubt after redoubt, if that is the right word, to say nothing of the

shelter trenches he dug and many pitfalls, furnished at the bottom with

sharp stakes, which he hollowed out wherever the soil could be easily

moved, to discomfit a charging enemy.



Indeed, when I saw the amount of work he had concluded in ten

days, which was not until I joined him on the mountain, I was quite

astonished.



About this time a dispute arose as to whether we should attempt to

prevent the Black Kendah from crossing the river which was now running

down, a plan that some of the elders favoured. At last the controversy

was referred to me as head general and I decided against anything of the

sort. It seemed to me that our force was too small, and that if I took

the rifle-men a great deal of ammunition might be expended with poor

result. Also in the event of any reverse or when we were finally driven

back, which must happen, there might be difficulty about remounting the

camels, our only means of escape from the horsemen who would possibly

gallop us down. Moreover the Tava had several fords, any one of which

might be selected by the enemy. So it was arranged that we should make

our first and last stand upon the Holy Mount.



On the fourteenth night from new moon our swift camel-scouts who were

posted in relays between the Tava and the Mount reported that the Black

Kendah were gathered in thousands upon the farther side of the river,

where they were engaged in celebrating magical ceremonies. On the

fifteenth night the scouts reported that they were crossing the river,

about five thousand horsemen and fifteen thousand foot soldiers, and

that at the head of them marched the huge god-elephant Jana, on which

rode Simba the King and a lame priest (evidently my friend whose foot

had been injured by the pistol), who acted as a mahout. This part of the

story I confess I did not believe, since it seemed to me impossible that

bundles of long sticks to each of which was attached a piece of white

cloth, a proceeding that excited my curiosity.



Soon its object became apparent. Swiftly these men, of whom in the end

there may have been thirty or forty, ran to and fro, testing the ground

with spears in search for pitfalls. I think they only found a very few

that had not been broken into, but in front of these and also of those

that were already full of men and horses they set up the flags as a

warning that they should be avoided in the advance. Also they removed a

number of their wounded.



We had great difficulty in restraining the White Kendah from rushing out

to attack them, which of course would only have led us into a trap in

our turn, since they would have fled and conducted their pursuers into

the arms of the enemy. Nor would I allow my riflemen to fire, as the

result must have been many misses and a great waste of ammunition which

ere long would be badly wanted. I, however, did shoot two or three, then

gave it up as the remainder took no notice whatever.



When they had thoroughly explored the ground they retired until, a

little later, the Black Kendah army began to appear, marching in serried

regiments and excellent order round the bend, till perhaps eight or ten

thousand of them were visible, a very fierce and awe-inspiring _impi_.

Their front ranks halted between three and four hundred yards away,

which I thought farther off than it was advisable to open fire on them

with Snider rifles held by unskilled troops. Then came a pause, which

at length was broken by the blowing of horns and a sound of exultant

shouting beyond the turn of the pass.



Now from round this turn appeared the strangest sight that I think my

eyes had ever seen. Yes, there came the huge elephant, Jana, at a slow,

shambling trot. On his back and head were two men in whom, with my

glasses, I recognized the lame priest whom I already knew too well and

Simba, the king of the Black Kendah, himself, gorgeously apparelled and


“Oh! George, that dreadful brute,” and she pointed to the dead elephant,

“has killed our baby. Look at it! Look at it! We must be everything to

each other now, dear, as we were before it came--unless God sends us

another.”



Then she burst into a flood of weeping and fell into his arms, after

which I turned away. So, to their honour be it said, did the Kendah,

leaving the pair alone behind the bulk of dead Jana.



Here I may state two things: first, that Lady Ragnall, whose bodily

health had remained perfect throughout, entirely recovered her reason

from that moment. It was as though on the shattering of the Ivory Child

some spell had been lifted off her. What this spell may have been I am

quite unable to explain, but I presume that in a dim and unknown way she

connected this effigy with her own lost infant and that while she held

and tended it her intellect remained in abeyance. If so, she must also

have connected its destruction with the death of her own child which,

strangely enough, it will be remembered, was likewise killed by an

elephant. The first death that occurred in her presence took away her

reason, the second seeming death, which also occurred in her presence,

brought it back again!



Secondly, from the moment of the destruction of her boy in the streets

of the English country town to that of the shattering of the Ivory Child

in Central Africa her memory was an utter blank, with one exception.

This exception was a dream which a few days later she narrated to

Ragnall in my presence. That dream was that she had seen him and Savage

sleeping together in a native house one night. In view of a certain

incident recorded in this history I leave the reader to draw his own

conclusions as to this curious incident. I have none to offer, or if I

have I prefer to keep them to myself.



Leaving Ragnall and his wife, I staggered off to look for Hans and found

him lying senseless near the north wall of the temple. Evidently he was


