Jacobean--I mean, the heavenly--ladder, it is legitimate to inquire why

they show such reluctance in jumping off. As a matter of fact the only

persons that, individually, I have seen quite willing to die, except now

and again to save somebody else whom they were so foolish as to care for

more than they did for themselves, have been not those “upon whom the

light has shined” to quote an earnest paper I chanced to read this

morning, but, to quote again, “the sinful heathen wandering in their

native blackness,” by which I understand the writer to refer to their

moral state and not to their sable skins wherein for the most part they

are also condemned to wander, that is if they happen to have been born

south of a certain degree of latitude.



To come to facts, the staff of Faith which each must shape for himself,

is often hewn from unsuitable kinds of wood, yes, even by the very best

among us. Willow, for instance, is pretty and easy to cut, but try to

support yourself with it on the edge of a precipice and see where you

are. Then of a truth you will long for ironbark, or even homely oak. I

might carry my parable further, some allusions to the proper material

of which to fashion the helmet of Salvation suggest themselves to me for

example, but I won’t.



The truth is that we fear to die because all the religions are full of

uncomfortable hints as to what may happen to us afterwards as a reward

for our deviations from their laws and we half believe in something,

whereas often the savage, not being troubled with religion, fears less,

because he half believes in nothing. For very few inhabitants of this

earth can attain either to complete belief or to its absolute opposite.

They can seldom lay their hands upon their hearts, and say they _know_

that they will live for ever, or sleep for ever; there remains in the

case of most honest men an element of doubt in either hypothesis.



That is what makes this story of mine so interesting, at any rate to

me, since it does seem to suggest that whether or no I have a future,

more to do with _Taduki_ smoke. Of course I remembered that Lady Ragnall

once told me kindly but firmly that I would if she wished. But that was

just where she made a mistake. For the rest it seemed unkind to refuse

her invitation now when she was in trouble, especially as I had once

promised that if ever I could be of help, she had only to command me.

No, I must go. But if that word--_Taduki_--were so much as mentioned I

would leave again in a hurry. Moreover it would not be, for doubtless

she had forgotten all about the stuff by now, even if it were not lost.



The end of it was that as I did not wish to write a long letter entering

into all that Lady Ragnall had told me, I sent her a telegram, saying

that if convenient to her, I would arrive at the Castle on the following

Saturday evening and adding that I must be back here on the Tuesday

afternoon, as I had guests coming to stay with me on that day. This

was perfectly true as the season was mid-November and I was to begin

shooting my coverts on the Wednesday morning, a function that once

fixed, cannot be postponed.



In due course an answer arrived--“Delighted, but hoped that you would

have been able to stay longer.”







Behold me then about six o’clock on the said Saturday evening being once

more whirled by a splendid pair of horses through the gateway arch of

Ragnall Castle. The carriage stopped beneath the portico, the great

doors flew open revealing the glow of the hall fire and lights within,

the footman sprang down from the box and two other footmen descended

the steps to assist me and my belongings out of the carriage. These,

I remember, consisted of a handbag with my dress clothes and a

yellow-backed novel.



So one of them took the handbag and the other had to content himself

with the novel, which made me wish I had brought a portmanteau as well,

if only for the look of the thing. The pair thus burdened, escorted me

up the steps and delivered me over to the butler who scanned me with a

number and when at last I was reduced to silence, lectured me about

shooting. Yes, this callow youth who was at Sandhurst, instructed

me, Allan Quatermain, how to kill elephants, he who had never seen an

elephant except when he fed it with buns at the Zoo. At last Mr. Smith,

who to Scroope’s great amusement had taken the end of the table and

assumed the position of host, gave the signal to move and we adjourned

to the drawing-room.



I don’t know what had happened but there we found the atmosphere

distinctly stormy. The ample Mrs. Smith sat in a chair fanning herself,

which caused the barbaric ornaments she wore to clank upon her fat arm.

Upon either side of her, pale and indeterminate, stood Polly and Dolly

each pretending to read a book. Somehow the three of them reminded me of

a coat-of-arms seen in a nightmare, British Matron _sejant_ with Modesty

and Virtue as supporters. Opposite, on the other side of the fire and

evidently very angry, stood Lady Ragnall, _regardant_.



“Do I understand you to say, Luna,” I heard Mrs. A.-S. ask in resonant

tones as I entered the room, “that you actually played the part of a

heathen goddess among these savages, clad in a transparent bed-robe?”



“Yes, Mrs. Atterby-Smith,” replied Lady Ragnall, “and a nightcap of

feathers. I will put it on for you if you won’t be shocked. Or perhaps

one of your daughters----”



“Oh!” said both the young ladies together, “please be quiet. Here come

the gentlemen.”



After this there was a heavy silence broken only by the stifled giggles

in the background of Mrs. Scroope and the canon’s fluffy-headed wife,

who to do her justice had some fun in her. Thank goodness the evening,

or rather that part of it did not last long, since presently Mrs.

Atterby-Smith, after studying me for a long while with a cold eye, rose

majestically and swept off to bed followed by her offspring.



Afterwards I ascertained from Mrs. Scroope that Lady Ragnall had been

amusing herself by taking away my character in every possible manner for

the benefit of her connections, who were left with a general impression

recollect I told you that which I have never breathed to any other

living soul, years ago on that night when first we met.”



“I promise,” I answered and was about to add something, I forget what,

when she cut me short, saying,



“That’s enough, for I know your word is rather better than your bond.

Now dress as quickly as you can or the dinner will be spoiled.”









CHAPTER IV. THROUGH THE GATES



Short as was the time at my disposal before the dinner-gong sounded,

it proved ample for reflection. With every article of attire that

I discarded went some of that boudoir glamour till its last traces

vanished with my walking-boots. I was fallen indeed. I who had come to

this place so full of virtuous resolutions, could now only reflect upon

the true and universal meaning of our daily prayer that we might be kept

from temptation. And yet what had tempted me? For my life’s sake I could

not say. The desire to please a most charming woman and to keep her from

making solitary experiments of a dangerous nature, I suppose, though

whether they should be less dangerous carried out jointly remained to

be seen. Certainly it was not any wish to eat of her proffered apple of

Knowledge, for already I knew a great deal more than I cared for about

things in general. Oh! the truth was that woman is the mightiest

force in the world, at any rate where the majority of us poor men is

concerned. She commanded and I must obey.



I grew desperate and wondered if I could escape. Perhaps I might slip

out of the back door and run for it, without my great coat or hat

although the night was so cold and I should probably be taken up as a

lunatic. No, it was impossible for I had forged a chain that might not

be broken. I had passed my word of honour. Well, I was in for it and

after all what was there of which I need be afraid that I should tremble

and shrink back as though I were about to run away with somebody’s wife,

gold-wrought garments like some bronzed beetle in the sunlight, came

waddling back towards me. He was odious and I knew that we hated each

other.



“Greeting, Egyptian,” he said, mopping his brow with his sleeve for

the sun was hot. “An honour for you! A great honour! The King of kings

commands your presence. Yes, he would speak with you with his own lips,

and with that abortion of a servant of yours also. Come! Come swiftly!”



“Swift as an arrow, Houman,” I answered laughing, “seeing that for three

moons I, like an arrow, have rested upon the string and flown no nearer

to his Majesty.”



“Three moons!” screeched the eunuch. “Why, many wait three years and

many go to the grave still waiting; bigger men than you, Egyptian,

though I hear you do claim to be of royal blood yonder on the Nile.

But talk not of arrows flying towards the most High, for surely it is

ill-omened and might earn you another honour, that of the string,” and

he made a motion suggestive of a cord encircling his throat. “Man, leave

your bow behind! Would you appear before the King armed? Yes, and your

dagger also.”



“Perchance a lion might appear before the King and he does not leave

his claws and teeth behind,” I answered drily as I divested myself of my

weapons.



Then we started, the three of us, leaving the chariot in charge of a

soldier.



“Draw your sleeves over your hands,” said the eunuch. “None must

appear before the King showing his hands, and, dwarf, since you have no

sleeves, thrust yours into your robe.”



“What am I to do with my feet?” he answered in a thick, guttural voice.

“Will it offend the King of kings to see my feet, most noble eunuch?”



“Certainly, certainly,” answered Houman, “since they are ugly enough to

offend even me. Hide them as much as possible. Now we are near, down on

your faces and crawl forward slowly on your knees and elbows, as I do.

Down, I say!”



So down I went, though with anger in my heart, for be it remembered

“It is dangerous, O King,” began the prince, for such he was, no less.



“And therefore the task will be the more to your taste, Cousin. Go now,

and be swift.”



So six hunters were called and the prince went, cursing me beneath his

breath as he passed us. For he was terribly afraid, and with reason.

Suddenly Bes ceased from his antics and prostrating himself, cried,



“A boon, O King. This noble lord throws doubt upon my master’s word.

Suffer that I may lead him to where the lion lies dead, since otherwise

wandering in those reeds the great King’s cousin might come to harm and

the great King be grieved.”



“I have many cousins,” said the King. “Still go if you wish, Dwarf.”



So Bes ran after the prince and catching him up, tapped him on the

shoulder with the lion’s tail to point out the way. Then they vanished

into the reeds and I went to the chariot to wash off the blood from my

body and clothes. As I fastened my robe I heard a sound of roaring, then

one scream, after which all grew still. Now I drew near to the reeds and

stood between them and the King’s camp.



Presently on their edge appeared Bes dancing and singing as before, but

this time he held a lion’s tail in either hand. After him came the six

hunters dragging between them the body of the lion we had killed. They

staggered with it towards the King, and I followed.



“I see the dwarf,” he said. “I see the dead lion and I see the hunters.

But where is my cousin? Make report, O Bes.”



“O King of kings,” replied Bes, “the mighty prince your cousin lies flat

yonder beneath the body of that lion’s wife. She sprang upon him and

killed him, and I sprang upon her and killed her with my spear. Here is

her tail, O King of kings.”



“Is this true?” he asked of the hunters.



“It is true, O King,” answered their captain. “The lioness, which was

wounded, leapt upon the prince, choosing him although he was behind us

Grasshopper that within a moon I will find means to kill him, and

afterwards come to join you in a land where men hunt fair.”



I smiled and Bes went on,



“Now I wish I had time to teach you that trick of swallowing your own

tongue, since perhaps you will need it in this boat of which they talk.”



“Did you not say to me an hour or two ago, Bes, that we are fools to

stretch out our hands to Death until he stretches out his to us? I will

not die until I must--now.”



“Why ‘now,’ Master, seeing that only this afternoon you bade me kill you

rather than let you be thrown to the wild beasts?” he asked peering at

me curiously.



“Do you remember the old hermit, the holy Tanofir, who dwells in a cell

over the sepulchre of the Apis bulls in the burial ground of the desert

near to Memphis, Bes?”



“The magician and prophet who is the brother of your grandfather,

Master, and the son of a king; he who brought you up before he became a

hermit? Yes, I know him well, though I have seldom been very near to him

because his eyes frighten me, as they frightened Cambyses the Persian

when Tanofir cursed him and foretold his doom after he had stabbed the

holy Apis, saying that by a wound from that same sword in his own body

he should die himself, which thing came to pass. As they have frightened

many another man also.”



“Well, Bes, when yonder king told me that I must die, fear filled me

who did not wish to die thus, and after the fear came a blackness in my

mind. Then of a sudden in that blackness I saw a picture of Tanofir, my

great uncle, seated in a sepulchre looking towards the East. Moreover

I heard him speak, and to me, saying, ‘Shabaka, my foster-son, fear

nothing. You are in great danger but it will pass. Speak to the great

King all that rises in your heart, for the gods of Vengeance make use of

your tongue and whatever you prophesy to him shall be fulfilled.’ So I

in a dream I thought to myself that they could not now be altered. The

King watched them sleepily for a while, then seemed to wake up and grow

clear-minded again. At least he said to me,



“Fortune has shown you smiles and frowns to-day, Egyptian, and the

smiles last. Yet remember that she has teeth behind her lips wherewith

to tear out the throat of the faithless. Man, if you play me false or

fail in your mission, be sure that you shall die and in such a fashion

that will make you think of yonder boat as a pleasant bed, and with you

this woman Amada and her uncle Peroa, and all your kin and hers; yes,”

 he added with a burst of shrewdness, “and even that abortion of a dwarf

to whom I have listened because he amused me, but who perhaps is more

cunning than he seems.”



“O King of kings,” I said, “I will not be false.” But I did not add to

whom I would be true.



“Good. Ere long I shall visit Egypt, as I have told you, and there

I shall pass judgment on you and others. Till then, farewell. Fear

nothing, for you have my safe-conduct. Begone, both of you, for you

weary me. But first drink and keep the cup, and in exchange, give me

that bow of yours which shoots so far and straight.”



“It is the King’s,” I answered as I pledged him in the golden, jewelled

cup which a butler had handed to me.



Then the curtain fell in front of the throne and chamberlains came

forward to lead me and Bes back to our lodging, one of whom took the cup

and bore it in front of us. Down the hall we went between the feasting

nobles who all bowed to one to whom the Great King had shown favour, and

so out of the palace through the quiet night back to the house where I

had dwelt while waiting audience of the King. Here the chamberlains

bade me farewell, giving the cup to Bes to carry, and saying that on the

morrow early my gold should be brought to me together with all that was

ancient white seal that opens all doors, and I will only make a pretence

of blinding you. Moreover I will cut your cords nearly through, so

that when the night comes you can break them, roll into the river and

escape.’



“‘Take it if you can,’ he said, ‘and use it to injure or destroy that

accursed one.’”



“So you took it, Bes.”



“Yes, Master, but not easily. Remember, it was on a chain about the

man’s neck, and I could not draw it over his head, for, like his hands,

his throat was tied by a cord, as you remember yours was.”



“I remember very well,” I said, “for my throat is still sore from the

rope that ran to the same staples to which my hands were fastened.”



“Yes, Master, and therefore if I drew the chain off his neck, it would

still have been on the ropes. I thought of trying to cut it with the

knife, but this was not easy because it is thick, and if I had dragged

it up on the blade of the knife it would have been seen, for many eyes

were watching me, Master. Then I took another counsel. While I pretended

to be putting out the eyes of Houman, I bent down and getting the chain

between my teeth I bit it through. One tooth broke--see, but the next

finished the business. I ate through the soft gold, Master, and then

sucked up the chain and the round white seal into my mouth, and that

is why I could not answer you just now, because my cheeks were full of

chain. So we have the King’s seal that all the subject countries know

and obey. It may be useful, yonder in Egypt, and at least the gold is of

value.”



“Clever!” I exclaimed, “very clever. But you have forgotten something,

Bes. When that knave escapes, he will tell the whole story and the King

will send after us and kill us who have stolen his royal seal.”



“I don’t think so, Master. First, it is not likely that Houman will

escape. He is very fat and soft and already suffers much. After a day in



“I greet you also, my son,” she answered, bending down and kissing me

on the brow, “who have been in far lands and passed so many dangers.

I greet you and thank the guardian gods who have brought you safe home

again. Rise, my son.”



I rose and kissed her on the face, then looked at the servants who were

bowing their welcome to me, and said,



“How comes it, Lady of the House, that all are gathered here? Did you

await some guest?”



“We awaited you, my son. For an hour have we stood here listening for

the sound of your feet.”



“Me!” I exclaimed. “That is strange, seeing that I have ridden fast

and hard from the East, tarrying only a few minutes, and those since I

entered Memphis, when I met----” and I stopped.



“Met whom, Shabaka?”



“The lady Amada walking in the procession of Isis.”



“Ah! the lady Amada. The mother waits that the son may stop to greet the

lady Amada!”



“But _why_ did you wait, my mother? Who but a spirit or a bird of

the air could have told you that I was coming, seeing that I sent no

messenger before me?”



“You must have done so, Shabaka, since yesterday one came from the holy

Tanofir, our relative who dwells in the desert in the burial-ground of

Sekera. He bore a message from Tanofir to me, telling me to make ready

since before sundown to-night you, my son, would be with me, having

escaped great dangers, accompanied by the dwarf Bes, your servant, and

six strange Eastern men. So I made ready and waited; also I prepared

lodging for the six strange men in the outbuildings behind the house and

sent a thank offering to the temple. For know, my son, I have suffered

much fear for you.”



“And not without cause, as you will say when I tell you all,” I answered

laughing. “But how Tanofir knew that I was coming is more than I can

guess. Come, my mother, greet Bes here, for had it not been for him,

“Remember, Master, that you hold the King’s seal. Let an answer be sent

to Idernes under the White Seal, bidding him wait on you.”



Then I rose and spoke.



“O Peroa,” I said, “as it chances I am the bearer of the private signet

of the Great King, which all men must obey in the north and in the

south, in the east and in the west, wherever the sun shines over the

dominions of the King. Look on it,” and taking the ancient White Seal

from about my neck, I handed it to him.



He looked and the Councillors looked. Then they said almost with one

voice,



“It is the White Seal, the very signet of the Great Kings of the East,”

 and they bowed before the dreadful thing.



“How you came by this we do not know, Shabaka,” said Peroa. “That can

be inquired of afterwards. Yet in truth it seems to be the old Signet

of signets, that which has come down from father to son for countless

generations, that which the King of kings carries on his person and

affixes to his private orders and to the greatest documents of State,

which afterwards can never be recalled, that of which a copy is

emblazoned on his banner.”



“It is,” I answered, “and from the King’s person it came to me for a

while. If any doubt, let the impress be brought, that is furnished to

all the officers throughout the Empire, and let the seal be set in the

impress.”



Now one of the officers rose and went to bring the impress which was in

his keeping, but Peroa continued,



“If this be the true seal, how would you use it, Shabaka, to help us in

our present trouble?”



“Thus, Prince,” I answered. “I would send a command under the seal to

Idernes to wait upon the holder of the seal here in Memphis. He will

suspect a trap and will not come until he has gathered a great army.

Then he will come, but meanwhile, you, Prince, can also collect an

army.”




“The cutting off of the right hand and scourging,” answered Peroa, at

which words the butler turned to fly. But Bes leapt on him like an ape

upon a bird, and held him fast.



“Seize that thief,” said Peroa to his servants, “and let him receive

fifty blows with the rods. His hand I spare because he must travel.”



They laid the man down and the rods having been fetched, gave him the

blows until at the thirtieth he howled for mercy, crying out that it was

true and that it was he who had captained the robbers, words which Peroa

caused to be written down. Then he asked him why he, a messenger from

the Satrap, had robbed in the streets of Memphis, and as he refused to

answer, commanded the officer of justice to lay on. After three more

blows the man said,



“O Prince, this was no common robbery for gain. I did what I was

commanded to do, because yonder noble had about him the ancient White

Seal of the Great King which he showed to certain of the Satrap’s

servants by the banks of the canal. That seal is a holy token, O Prince,

which, it is said, has descended for twice a thousand years in the

family of the Great King, and as the Satrap did not know how it had come

into the hands of the noble Shabaka, he ordered me to obtain it if I

could.”



“And the pearls too, Butler?”



“Yes, O Prince, since those gems are a great possession with which any

Satrap could buy a larger satrapy.”



“Let him go,” said Peroa, and the man rose, rubbing himself and weeping

in his pain.



“Now, Butler,” he went on, “return to your master with a grateful heart,

since you have been spared much that you deserve. Say to him that he

cannot steal the Signet, but that if he is wise he will obey it, since

otherwise his fate may be worse than yours, and to all his servants say

the same. Foolish man, how can you, or your master, guess what is in

the mind of the Great King, or for what purpose the Signet of signets is

my rage and as to the fashion in which I was tied in the boat. When I

had done, he said,



“So you gave the name of Amada to the Great King, did you? Well,

you could have done nothing else if you wished to go on living, and

therefore cannot be blamed. Yet before all is finished I think it will

bring you into trouble, Shabaka, since among many gifts, the gods did

not give that of reason to women. If so, bear it, since it is better to

have trouble and be alive than to have none and be dead, that is, for

those whose work is still to do in the world. And you, or rather Bes,

stole the White Signet of signets of which, although it is so simple and

ancient, there is not the like for power in the whole world. That

was well done since it will be useful for a while. And now Peroa has

determined to rebel against the King, which also is well done. Oh!

trouble not to tell me of that business for I know all. But what would

you learn of me, Shabaka?”



“I am instructed to learn from you the end of these great matters, my

Uncle.”



“Are you mad, Shabaka, that you should think me a god who can read the

future?”



“Not at all, my Uncle, who know that you can if you will.”



“Call the maiden,” he said.



So Bes went out and brought her in.



“Be seated, Karema, there in front of the altar, and look into my eyes.”



She obeyed and presently seemed to go to sleep for her head nodded. Then

he said,



“Wake, woman, look into the water in the bowl upon the altar and tell me

what you see.”



She appeared to wake, though I perceived that this was not really so,

for she seemed a different woman with a fixed face that frightened me,

and wide and frozen eyes. She stared into the silver bowl, then spoke in

a new voice, as though some spirit used her tongue.


remembers what it has held in trance, which I do not believe. I wooed

her as I was, not telling her that I am also King of the Ethiopians, or

any more than I seem to be. Moreover the holy Tanofir told her nothing,

for he swore as much to me and he does not lie.”



“And what did she say to you, Bes?” I asked, for I was curious.



“She lied fast enough, Master. She said--well, what she said when first

we met her, that there was more in me than the eye saw and that she who

had lived so much with spirits looked to the spirit rather than to the

flesh, and that dwarf or no she loved me and desired nothing better than

to marry me and be my true and faithful wife and helpmeet. She lied so

well that once or twice almost I believed her. At any rate I took her

at her word, not altogether for myself, believe me, Master, but because

without doubt what the holy Tanofir has shown us will come to pass, and

it is necessary to you that I should be married.”



“You married her to help me, Bes?”



“That is so, Master--after all, but a little thing, seeing that she is

beautiful, well born and very pleasant, and I am fond of her. Also I do

her no wrong for she has bought more than she bargained for, and if she

has any that are not dwarfs, her children may be kings. I do not think,”

 he added reflectively, “that even the faithful Ethiopians could accept

a second dwarf as their king. One is very well for a change, but not two

or three. The stomach of a tall people would turn against them.”



I took Bes’s hand and pressed it, understanding the depth of his

love and sacrifice. Also some spirit--doubtless it came from the holy

Tanofir--moved me to say,



“Be comforted, Bes, for I am sure of this. Your children will be strong

and straight and tall, more so than any of their forefathers that went

before them.”



This indeed proved to be the case, for their father’s deformity was but

if my offer did not please them, I myself would fight, first Idernes and

then the noble. So they returned.



The end of it was that we saw Idernes and his captain advancing,

followed by a guard of ten men. Then after I had explained all things to

my officers, I also advanced with Bes, followed by a guard of ten picked

men. We met between the armies on a little sandy plain at the foot of

the rise and there followed talk between the captains of our guards as

to arms and so forth, but we four said nothing to each other, since the

time for words was past. Only Bes and I sat down upon the sand and spoke

a little together of Amada and Karema and of how they would receive the

news of our victory or deaths.



“It does not much matter, Master,” said Bes at last, “seeing that if we

die we shall never know, and if we live we shall learn for ourselves.”



At length all was arranged and we stood up to face each other, the four

of us being armed in the same way. For as did Idernes and the hawk-eyed

lord, Bes and I wore shirts of mail and helms, those that we had brought

with us from the East. For weapons we had short and heavy swords, small

shields and knives at our girdles.



“Look your last upon the sun, Thieves,” mocked Idernes, “for when you

see it again, it shall be with blind eyes from the points of spears

fastened to the gateway pillars of the Great King’s palace.”



“Liars you have lived and liars you shall die,” shouted Bes, but I said

nothing.



Now the agreement was that when the word had been given Idernes and I,

and the noble and Bes, should fight together, but if they killed one of

us, or we killed one of them, the two who survived might fall together

on the remaining man. Remembering this, as he told me afterwards, at the

signal Bes leapt forward like a flash with working face and foam upon

his lips, and before ever I could come to Idernes, how I know not,

which I had seen him on my return from the East. Here he bade me enter,

and Bes to wait without. I went in and found two men and a woman in the

chamber, all standing very silent. The men were Pharaoh who still wore

his glorious robe and Double Crown, and the high priest of Isis clothed

in white; the other was the lady Amada also clothed in the snowy robes

of Isis.



At the sight of her thus arrayed my heart stopped and I stood silent

because I could not speak. She too stood silent and I saw that beneath

her thin veil her beautiful face was set and pale as that of an

alabaster statue. Indeed she might have been not a lovely living woman,

but the goddess Isis herself whose symbols she bore about her.



“Shabaka,” said Pharaoh at length, “the Royal Lady of Egypt, Amada,

priestess of Isis, has somewhat to say to you.”



“Let the Royal Lady of Egypt speak on to her servant and affianced

husband,” I answered.



“Count Shabaka, General of the armies,” she began in a cold clear voice

like to that of one who repeats a lesson, “learn that you are no more my

affianced husband and that I who am gathered again to Isis the divine,

am no more your affianced wife.”



“I do not understand. Will it please you to be more plain?” I said

faintly.



“I will be more plain, Count Shabaka, more plain than you have been with

me. Since we speak together for the last time it is well that I should

be plain. Hear me. When first you returned from the East, in yonder hall

you told us of certain things that happened to you there. Then the dwarf

your servant took up the tale. He said that he gave my name to the Great

King. I was wroth as well I might be, but even when I prayed that he

should be scourged, you did not deny that it was he who gave my name to

the King, although Pharaoh yonder said that if you had spoken the name

it would have been another matter.”

humbly. “Surely it would be time to rate me when any of these things had

happened.”



“If any of them do happen, Husband, I shall say much worse things than

that,” she replied, but the talk went no further, for at this moment our

boat grounded and singing a wild song, many of those who waited rushed

into the water to drag it to the bank.



Then Bes stood up on the prow, waving his bow and there arose a mighty

shout of, “_Karoon! Karoon!_ It is he, it is he returned after many

years!”



Twice they shouted thus and then, every one of them, threw themselves

face downwards in the sand.



“Yes, my people,” cried Bes, “it is I, Karoon, who having been

miraculously preserved from many dangers in far lands by the help of the

Grasshopper in heaven, and, as my messengers will have told you, of my

beloved friend, lord Shabaka the Egyptian, who has deigned to come to

dwell with us for a while, have at length returned to Ethiopia that I

may shed my wisdom on you like the sun and pour it on your heads like

melted honey. Moreover, mindful of our laws which aforetime I defied and

therefore left you, I have searched the whole world through till I found

the most beautiful woman that it contained, and made her my wife. She

too has deigned to come to this far country to be your queen. Advance,

fair Karema, and show yourself to these my Ethiopians.”



So Karema stepped forward and stood on the prow of the boat by the side

of Bes, and a strange couple they looked. The Ethiopians who had risen,

considered her gravely, then one of them said,



“Karoon called her beautiful, but in truth she is almost white and very

ugly.”



“At least she is a woman,” said another, “for her shape is female.”



“Yes, and he has married her,” remarked a third, “and even a king

may choose his own wife sometimes. For in such matters who can judge

another’s taste?”



“Cease,” said Bes in a lordly way. “If you do not think her beautiful

the temple of the Grasshopper, while Bes and his nobles watched from a

distance.



And so farewell to my beloved mother, the lady Tiu.







After she was gone I grew very sad and lonely. While she lived I had a

home, but now I was an exile, a stranger in a strange land with no one

of my own people to talk to except Karema, with whom, as there were

gossips even in Ethiopia, I thought it well not to talk too much. There

was Bes it was true, but now he was a great king and the time of kings

is not their own. Moreover Bes was Bes and an Ethiopian and I was I and

an Egyptian, and therefore notwithstanding our love and brotherhood, we

could never be like men of the same blood and country.



I grew weary of Ethiopia with its useless gold and damp eternal green

and heat, and longed for the sand and the keen desert air. Bes noted it

and offered me wives, but I shrank from these black women however buxom

and kindly, and wished for no offspring of their race whom afterwards I

could never leave. To Egypt I had sworn not to return unless one voice

called me and it remained silent. What then was I to do, being no longer

content to discipline and command an army that I might not lead into

battle?



At length I made up my mind. By nature I was a hunter as much as a

soldier; I would beg from Bes a band of brave men whom I knew, lovers

of adventure who sought new things, and with them strike down south,

following the path of the elephants to wherever the gods might lead us.

Doubtless in the end it would be to death, but what matter when there is

nothing for which one cares to live?



While I was brooding over these plans Karema read my mind, perhaps

because it was her own, perhaps by help of her strange arts, which I do

not know. At least one day when I was sitting alone looking at the city

beneath from one of the palace window-places, she came to me looking

all your generalship whereof once you had plenty, in the soft air of

Ethiopia? Or is it that even the shadow of marriage makes _you_ dull?

Well, I must turn to the woman, for that is always the lot of man. Your

plan, Karema, and quickly for there is no time to lose.”



Now the face of Karema grew fixed and her eyes dreamy as she spoke in a

slow, measured voice like one who knows not what she says.



“My plan is to destroy the armies of the Great King and to relieve the

city of Amada.”



“A very good plan,” said holy Tanofir, “but the question is, how?”



“I think,” went on Karema, “that about a league above this place there

is a spot where at this season the Nile can be forded by tall men

without the wetting of their shoulders. First then, I would send five

thousand swordsmen across that ford and let them creep down on the navy

of the Great King where the sailors revel in safety, or sleep sound, and

fire the ships. The wind blows strongly from the south and the flames

will leap fast from one of them to the other. Most of their crews will

be burned and the rest can be slain by our five thousand.”



“Good, very good,” said the holy Tanofir, “but not enough, seeing that

on the eastern bank is gathered the host of over two hundred thousand

men. Now how will you deal with _them_, Karema?”



“I seem to see a road yonder beyond the swamp. It runs on the edge of

the desert but behind the sand-hills. I would send the archers of whom

there are more than thirty thousand, under the command of Shabaka along

that road which leads them past Amada. On its farther side are low hills

strewn with rocks. Here I would let the archers take cover and wait for

the breaking of the dawn. Then beneath them they will see the most of

the Eastern host and with such bows as ours they can sweep the plain

from the hills almost to the Nile, and having a hundred arrows to a man,

Then at my command the ivory horns sounded the charge. Every man slung

his bow upon his back and drew his short sword.



“On to them!” I cried and leapt forward.



Like a black torrent we rushed down the hill, leaping over the dead and

wounded. The retreat became a rout since before these ebon, great-eyed

warriors the soft Easterns did not care to stand. They fled screaming,



“These are devils! These are devils!”



We were among them now, hacking and stabbing with the short swords upon

their heads and backs. There was no need to aim the blow, they were so

many. Like a huddled mob of cattle they turned and fled down Nile. But

my orders had reached the vanguard and these, hidden in the growing

crops on the narrow neck of swampy land between the hills and the Nile,

met them with arrows as they came, also raked them from the steep cliff

side. Their chariot wheels sank into the mud till the horses were slain;

their footmen were piled in heaps about them, till soon there was a

mighty wall of dead and dying. And our centre and rearguard came up

behind. Oh! we slew and slew, till before the sun was an hour high over

half the army of the Great King was no more. Then we re-formed, having

suffered but little loss, and drank of the water of the Nile.



“All is not done,” I cried.



For the Immortals still remained behind us, gathered in massed ranks

about their king. Also there were many thousands of others between these

and the walls of Amada, and to the south of the city yet a second army,

that with which Bes had been left to deal, with what success I knew not.



“Ethiopians,” I shouted, “cease crying Victory, since the battle is

about to begin. Strike, and at once before the Easterns find their heart

again.”



So we advanced upon the Immortals, all of us, for now the vanguard had

joined our strength.



In long lines we advanced over that blood-soaked plain, and as we came

the Great King loosed his remaining chariots against us. It availed him

