occupies the post that once was Harry Bullivant's.  Richard Hannay is

where he longed to be, commanding his battalion on the ugliest bit of

front in the West.  Mr John S.  Blenkiron, full of honour and wholly

cured of dyspepsia, has returned to the States, after vainly

endeavouring to take Peter with him.  As for Peter, he has attained the

height of his ambition.  He has shaved his beard and joined the Flying

Corps.







CONTENTS





   1.  A Mission is Proposed

   2.  The Gathering of the Missionaries

   3.  Peter Pienaar

   4.  Adventures of Two Dutchmen on the Loose

   5.  Further Adventures of the Same

   6.  The Indiscretions of the Same

   7.  Christmas Eve

   8.  The Essen Barges

   9.  The Return of the Straggler

  10. The Garden-House of Suliman the Red

  11. The Companions of the Rosy Hours

  12. Four Missionaries See Light in Their Mission

  13. I Move in Good Society

  14. The Lady of the Mantilla

  15. An Embarrassed Toilet

  16. The Battered Caravanserai

  17. Trouble By the Waters of Babylon

  18. Sparrows on the Housetops

  19. Greenmantle

  20. Peter Pienaar Goes to the Wars

  21. The Little Hill

  22. The Guns of the North







CHAPTER ONE



A Mission is Proposed



I had just finished breakfast and was filling my pipe when I got

Bullivant's telegram.  It was at Furling, the big country house in

Hampshire where I had come to convalesce after Loos, and Sandy, who was

in the same case, was hunting for the marmalade.  I flung him the

flimsy with the blue strip pasted down on it, and he whistled.



'Hullo, Dick, you've got the battalion.  Or maybe it's a staff billet.




'Allow me to offer you luncheon, Major.  Here, waiter, bring the carte.

I regret that I cannot join you in sampling the efforts of the

management of this hotel.  I suffer, Sir, from dyspepsia--duodenal

dyspepsia.  It gets me two hours after a meal and gives me hell just

below the breast-bone.  So I am obliged to adopt a diet.  My

nourishment is fish, Sir, and boiled milk and a little dry toast. It's

a melancholy descent from the days when I could do justice to a lunch

at Sherry's and sup off oyster-crabs and devilled bones.'  He sighed

from the depths of his capacious frame.



I ordered an omelette and a chop, and took another look at him. The

large eyes seemed to be gazing steadily at me without seeing me.  They

were as vacant as an abstracted child's; but I had an uncomfortable

feeling that they saw more than mine.



'You have been fighting, Major?  The Battle of Loos?  Well, I guess

that must have been some battle.  We in America respect the fighting of

the British soldier, but we don't quite catch on to the de-vices of the

British Generals.  We opine that there is more bellicosity than science

among your highbrows.  That is so?  My father fought at Chattanooga,

but these eyes have seen nothing gorier than a Presidential election.

Say, is there any way I could be let into a scene of real bloodshed?'



His serious tone made me laugh.  'There are plenty of your countrymen

in the present show,' I said.  'The French Foreign Legion is full of

young Americans, and so is our Army Service Corps.  Half the chauffeurs

you strike in France seem to come from the States.'



He sighed.  'I did think of some belligerent stunt a year back.  But I

reflected that the good God had not given John S.  Blenkiron the kind

of martial figure that would do credit to the tented field.  Also I

recollected that we Americans were nootrals--benevolent nootrals--and

that it did not become me to be butting into the struggles of the

coming.  The first thing the sportsman did was to write a letter to the

papers signed with his name.  There had been a debate in the House of

Commons on foreign policy, and the speech of some idiot there gave him

his cue.  He declared that he had been heart and soul with the British

at the start, but that he was reluctantly compelled to change his

views.  He said our blockade of Germany had broken all the laws of God

and humanity, and he reckoned that Britain was now the worst exponent

of Prussianism going.  That letter made a fine racket, and the paper

that printed it had a row with the Censor. But that was only the

beginning of Mr Blenkiron's campaign.  He got mixed up with some

mountebanks called the League of Democrats against Aggression,

gentlemen who thought that Germany was all right if we could only keep

from hurting her feelings.  He addressed a meeting under their

auspices, which was broken up by the crowd, but not before John S.  had

got off his chest a lot of amazing stuff.  I wasn't there, but a man

who was told me that he never heard such clotted nonsense.  He said

that Germany was right in wanting the freedom of the seas, and that

America would back her up, and that the British Navy was a bigger

menace to the peace of the world than the Kaiser's army.  He admitted

that he had once thought differently, but he was an honest man and not

afraid to face facts.  The oration closed suddenly, when he got a

brussels-sprout in the eye, at which my friend said he swore in a very

unpacifist style.



After that he wrote other letters to the Press, saying that there was

no more liberty of speech in England, and a lot of scallywags backed

him up.  Some Americans wanted to tar and feather him, and he got

kicked out of the Savoy.  There was an agitation to get him deported,

and questions were asked in Parliament, and the Under-Secretary for

Foreign Affairs said his department had the matter in hand.  I was


came in and our friend sprang up and saluted, clicking his heels like a

pair of tongs.



'These are the South African Dutch, Herr Captain,' he said.



The new-comer looked us over with bright intelligent eyes, and started

questioning Peter in the taal.  It was well that we had taken some

pains with our story, for this man had been years in German South West,

and knew every mile of the borders.  Zorn was his name, and both Peter

and I thought we remembered hearing him spoken of.



I am thankful to say that we both showed up pretty well.  Peter told

his story to perfection, not pitching it too high, and asking me now

and then for a name or to verify some detail.  Captain Zorn looked

satisfied.



'You seem the right kind of fellows,' he said.  'But remember'--and he

bent his brows on us--'we do not understand slimness in this land.  If

you are honest you will be rewarded, but if you dare to play a double

game you will be shot like dogs.  Your race has produced over many

traitors for my taste.'



'I ask no reward,' I said gruffly.  'We are not Germans or Germany's

slaves.  But so long as she fights against England we will fight for

her.'



'Bold words,' he said; 'but you must bow your stiff necks to discipline

first.  Discipline has been the weak point of you Boers, and you have

suffered for it.  You are no more a nation.  In Germany we put

discipline first and last, and therefore we will conquer the world.

Off with you now.  Your train starts in three minutes.  We will see

what von Stumm will make of you.'



That fellow gave me the best 'feel' of any German I had yet met. He was

a white man and I could have worked with him.  I liked his stiff chin

and steady blue eyes.



My chief recollection of our journey to Berlin was its commonplaceness.

The spectacled lieutenant fell asleep, and for the most part we had the

'I'm Hannay all right.  For God's sake don't wink an eye.  I'm here on

a secret job.'



The doctor had turned to see what was the matter.  I got a few more

words in.  'Cheer up, old man.  We're winning hands down.'



Then I began to talk excited Dutch and finished the collection of the

cards.  Dolly was playing his part well, smiling as if he was amused by

the antics of a monkey.  The others were coming back, the

deputy-commandant with an angry light in his dull eye.  'Speaking to

the prisoners is forbidden,' he shouted.



I looked blankly at him till the lieutenant translated.



'What kind of fellow is he?' said Dolly in English to the doctor. 'He

spoils my game and then jabbers High-Dutch at me.'



Officially I knew English, and that speech of Dolly's gave me my cue.

I pretended to be very angry with the very damned Englishman, and went

out of the room close by the deputy-commandant, grumbling like a sick

jackal.  After that I had to act a bit.  The last place we visited was

the close-confinement part where prisoners were kept as a punishment

for some breach of the rules.  They looked cheerless enough, but I

pretended to gloat over the sight, and said so to the lieutenant, who

passed it on to the others.  I have rarely in my life felt such a cad.



On the way home the lieutenant discoursed a lot about prisoners and

detention-camps, for at one time he had been on duty at Ruhleben.

Peter, who had been in quod more than once in his life, was deeply

interested and kept on questioning him.  Among other things he told us

was that they often put bogus prisoners among the rest, who acted as

spies.  If any plot to escape was hatched these fellows got into it and

encouraged it.  They never interfered till the attempt was actually

made and then they had them on toast.  There was nothing the Boche

liked so much as an excuse for sending a poor devil to 'solitary'.


Only when I was to be deprived of it did I realize how much his company

had meant to me.  I was absolutely alone now, and I didn't like it.  I

seemed to have about as much chance of joining Blenkiron and Sandy as

of flying to the moon.



After breakfast I was told to get ready.  When I asked where I was

going Stumm advised me to mind my own business, but I remembered that

last night he had talked of taking me home with him and giving me my

orders.  I wondered where his home was.



Gaudian patted me on the back when we started and wrung my hand.  He

was a capital good fellow, and it made me feel sick to think that I was

humbugging him.  We got into the same big grey car, with Stumm's

servant sitting beside the chauffeur.  It was a morning of hard frost,

the bare fields were white with rime, and the fir-trees powdered like a

wedding-cake.  We took a different road from the night before, and

after a run of half a dozen miles came to a little town with a big

railway station.  It was a junction on some main line, and after five

minutes' waiting we found our train. Once again we were alone in the

carriage.  Stumm must have had some colossal graft, for the train was

crowded.



I had another three hours of complete boredom.  I dared not smoke, and

could do nothing but stare out of the window.  We soon got into hilly

country, where a good deal of snow was lying. It was the 23rd day of

December, and even in war time one had a sort of feel of Christmas.

You could see girls carrying evergreens, and when we stopped at a

station the soldiers on leave had all the air of holiday making.  The

middle of Germany was a cheerier place than Berlin or the western

parts.  I liked the look of the old peasants, and the women in their

neat Sunday best, but I noticed, too, how pinched they were.  Here in



At first we made good going along the straight, broad highway lined

with woods on one side and on the other snowy fields melting into haze.

Then he began to talk, and, as he talked, he slowed down.  This by no

means suited my book, and I seriously wondered whether I should pitch

him out and take charge of the thing.  He was obviously a weakling,

left behind in the conscription, and I could have done it with one

hand.  But by a fortunate chance I left him alone.



'That is a fine hat of yours, mein Herr,' he said.  He took off his own

blue peaked cap, the uniform, I suppose, of the driver of the

post-wagon, and laid it on his knee.  The night air ruffled a shock of

tow-coloured hair.



Then he calmly took my hat and clapped it on his head.



'With this thing I should be a gentleman,' he said.



I said nothing, but put on his cap and waited.



'That is a noble overcoat, mein Herr,' he went on.  'It goes well with

the hat.  It is the kind of garment I have always desired to own.  In

two days it will be the holy Christmas, when gifts are given.  Would

that the good God sent me such a coat as yours!'



'You can try it on to see how it looks,' I said good-humouredly.



He stopped the car with a jerk, and pulled off his blue coat.  The

exchange was soon effected.  He was about my height, and my ulster

fitted not so badly.  I put on his overcoat, which had a big collar

that buttoned round the neck.



The idiot preened himself like a girl.  Drink and vanity had primed him

for any folly.  He drove so carelessly for a bit that he nearly put us

into a ditch.  We passed several cottages and at the last he slowed

down.



'A friend of mine lives here,' he announced.  'Gertrud would like to

see me in the fine clothes which the most amiable Herr has given me.


staring at me with saucer eyes, and smiling when I looked their way,

the woman talked.  Her man had gone to the wars on the Eastern front,

and the last she had heard from him he was in a Polish bog and longing

for his dry native woodlands.  The struggle meant little to her.  It

was an act of God, a thunderbolt out of the sky, which had taken a

husband from her, and might soon make her a widow and her children

fatherless.  She knew nothing of its causes and purposes, and thought

of the Russians as a gigantic nation of savages, heathens who had never

been converted, and who would eat up German homes if the good Lord and

the brave German soldiers did not stop them.  I tried hard to find out

if she had any notion of affairs in the West, but she hadn't, beyond

the fact that there was trouble with the French.  I doubt if she knew

of England's share in it.  She was a decent soul, with no bitterness

against anybody, not even the Russians if they would spare her man.



That night I realized the crazy folly of war.  When I saw the

splintered shell of Ypres and heard hideous tales of German doings, I

used to want to see the whole land of the Boche given up to fire and

sword.  I thought we could never end the war properly without giving

the Huns some of their own medicine.  But that woodcutter's cottage

cured me of such nightmares.  I was for punishing the guilty but

letting the innocent go free.  It was our business to thank God and

keep our hands clean from the ugly blunders to which Germany's madness

had driven her.  What good would it do Christian folk to burn poor

little huts like this and leave children's bodies by the wayside?  To

be able to laugh and to be merciful are the only things that make man

better than the beasts.



The place, as I have said, was desperately poor.  The woman's face had

the skin stretched tight over the bones and that transparency which

treated me as if I were a dangerous man, whereas all their conduct

hitherto had shown that they thought me a fool.  I could not understand

it.



'But I had not been one night in that Neuburg place before I thought of

the reason.  They wanted to keep me under observation as a check upon

you, Cornelis.  I figured it out this way.  They had given you some

very important work which required them to let you into some big

secret.  So far, good.  They evidently thought much of you, even yon

Stumm man, though he was as rude as a buffalo.  But they did not know

you fully, and they wanted to check on you.  That check they found in

Peter Pienaar.  Peter was a fool, and if there was anything to blab,

sooner or later Peter would blab it.  Then they would stretch out a

long arm and nip you short, wherever you were. Therefore they must keep

old Peter under their eye.'



'That sounds likely enough,' I said.



'It was God's truth,' said Peter.  'And when it was all clear to me I

settled that I must escape.  Partly because I am a free man and do not

like to be in prison, but mostly because I was not sure of myself.

Some day my temper would go again, and I might say foolish things for

which Cornelis would suffer.  So it was very certain that I must escape.



'Now, Cornelis, I noticed pretty soon that there were two kinds among

the prisoners.  There were the real prisoners, mostly English and

French, and there were humbugs.  The humbugs were treated, apparently,

like the others, but not really, as I soon perceived. There was one man

who passed as an English officer, another as a French Canadian, and the

others called themselves Russians.  None of the honest men suspected

them, but they were there as spies to hatch plots for escape and get

the poor devils caught in the act, and to worm out confidences which

might be of value.  That is the German notion of good business.  I am


fear we had missed it.  It was no good asking any of the crowd we met.

They didn't look as if they understood any civilized tongue.



At last we stumbled on it--a tumble-down coffee house, with A.

Kuprasso above the door in queer amateur lettering.  There was a lamp

burning inside, and two or three men smoking at small wooden tables.



We ordered coffee, thick black stuff like treacle, which Peter

anathematized.  A negro brought it, and I told him in German I wanted

to speak to Mr Kuprasso.  He paid no attention, so I shouted louder at

him, and the noise brought a man out of the back parts.



He was a fat, oldish fellow with a long nose, very like the Greek

traders you see on the Zanzibar coast.  I beckoned to him and he

waddled forward, smiling oilily.  Then I asked him what he would take,

and he replied, in very halting German, that he would have a sirop.



'You are Mr Kuprasso,' I said.  'I wanted to show this place to my

friend.  He has heard of your garden-house and the fun there.'



'The Signor is mistaken.  I have no garden-house.'



'Rot,' I said; 'I've been here before, my boy.  I recall your shanty at

the back and many merry nights there.  What was it you called it? Oh, I

remember--the Garden-House of Suliman the Red.'



He put his finger to his lip and looked incredibly sly.  'The Signor

remembers that.  But that was in the old happy days before war came.

The place is long since shut.  The people here are too poor to dance

and sing.'



'All the same I would like to have another look at it,' I said, and I

slipped an English sovereign into his hand.



He glanced at it in surprise and his manner changed.  'The Signor is a

Prince, and I will do his will.'  He clapped his hands and the negro

appeared, and at his nod took his place behind a little side-counter.






We entered a door, and found ourselves in a big stone hall.  It was

quite warm, which made me more hopeful about our cells.  A man in some

kind of uniform pointed to the staircase, up which we plodded wearily.

My mind was too blank to take clear impressions, or in any way to

forecast the future.  Another warder met us and took us down a passage

till we halted at a door.  He stood aside and motioned us to enter.



I guessed that this was the governor's room, and we should be put

through our first examination.  My head was too stupid to think, and I

made up my mind to keep perfectly mum.  Yes, even if they tried

thumbscrews.  I had no kind of story, but I resolved not to give

anything away.  As I turned the handle I wondered idly what kind of

sallow Turk or bulging-necked German we should find inside.



It was a pleasant room, with a polished wood floor and a big fire

burning on the hearth.  Beside the fire a man lay on a couch, with a

little table drawn up beside him.  On that table was a small glass of

milk and a number of Patience cards spread in rows.



I stared blankly at the spectacle, till I saw a second figure.  It was

the man in the skin-cap, the leader of the dancing maniacs.  Both Peter

and I backed sharply at the sight and then stood stock still.



For the dancer crossed the room in two strides and gripped both of my

hands.



'Dick, old man,' he cried, 'I'm most awfully glad to see you again!'







CHAPTER TWELVE



Four Missionaries See Light in their Mission



A spasm of incredulity, a vast relief, and that sharp joy which comes

of reaction chased each other across my mind.  I had come suddenly out

of very black waters into an unbelievable calm.  I dropped into the

nearest chair and tried to grapple with something far beyond words.



'Sandy,' I said, as soon as I got my breath, 'you're an incarnate


'I said "work".'



He smiled blandly.  'I reckoned you'd tumble to it.  Why, yes, except

that I've some figuring still to do.  Give me half an hour and I'll be

at your service, Major.'



That afternoon, after Peter had cooked a wonderfully good luncheon, I

had a heart-to-heart talk with Blenkiron.



'My business is to get noos,' he said; 'and before I start on a stunt I

make considerable preparations.  All the time in London when I was

yelping at the British Government, I was busy with Sir Walter arranging

things ahead.  We used to meet in queer places and at all hours of the

night.  I fixed up a lot of connections in this city before I arrived,

and especially a noos service with your Foreign Office by way of

Rumania and Russia.  In a day or two I guess our friends will know all

about our discoveries.'



At that I opened my eyes very wide.



'Why, yes.  You Britishers haven't any notion how wide-awake your

Intelligence Service is.  I reckon it's easy the best of all the

belligerents.  You never talked about it in peace time, and you shunned

the theatrical ways of the Teuton.  But you had the wires laid good and

sure.  I calculate there isn't much that happens in any corner of the

earth that you don't know within twenty-four hours. I don't say your

highbrows use the noos well.  I don't take much stock in your political

push.  They're a lot of silver-tongues, no doubt, but it ain't oratory

that is wanted in this racket.  The William Jennings Bryan stunt

languishes in war-time.  Politics is like a chicken-coop, and those

inside get to behave as if their little run were all the world.  But if

the politicians make mistakes it isn't from lack of good instruction to

guide their steps.  If I had a big proposition to handle and could have

my pick of helpers I'd plump for the Intelligence Department of the

British Admiralty.  Yes, Sir, I take off my hat to your Government



We had to trust to Peter's instinct.  I asked him where our line lay,

and he sat very still for a minute sniffing the air.  Then he pointed

the direction.  It wasn't what I would have taken myself, but on a

point like that he was pretty near infallible.



Presently we came to a long slope which cheered me.  But at the top

there was no light visible anywhere--only a black void like the inside

of a shell.  As I stared into the gloom it seemed to me that there were

patches of deeper darkness that might be woods.



'There is a house half-left in front of us,' said Peter.



I peered till my eyes ached and saw nothing.



'Well, for heaven's sake, guide me to it,' I said, and with Peter in

front we set off down the hill.



It was a wild journey, for darkness clung as close to us as a vest.

Twice we stepped into patches of bog, and once my horse saved himself

by a hair from going head forward into a gravel pit.  We got tangled up

in strands of wire, and often found ourselves rubbing our noses against

tree trunks.  Several times I had to get down and make a gap in

barricades of loose stones.  But after a ridiculous amount of slipping

and stumbling we finally struck what seemed the level of a road, and a

piece of special darkness in front which turned out to be a high wall.



I argued that all mortal walls had doors, so we set to groping along

it, and presently found a gap.  There was an old iron gate on broken

hinges, which we easily pushed open, and found ourselves on a back path

to some house.  It was clearly disused, for masses of rotting leaves

covered it, and by the feel of it underfoot it was grass-grown.



We dismounted now, leading our horses, and after about fifty yards the

path ceased and came out on a well-made carriage drive. So, at least,

we guessed, for the place was as black as pitch. Evidently the house




This confounded nonsense was well received.  Her pale eyes had the cold

light of the fanatic.  With her bright hair and the long exquisite oval

of her face she looked like some destroying fury of a Norse legend.  At

that moment I think I first really feared her; before I had half-hated

and half-admired.  Thank Heaven, in her absorption she did not notice

that I had forgotten the speech of Cleveland, Ohio.



'You are of the Household of Faith,' she said.  'You will presently

learn many things, for the Faith marches to victory.  Meantime I have

one word for you.  You and your companion travel eastward.'



'We go to Mesopotamia,' I said.  'I reckon these are our passports,'

and I pointed to the envelope.



She picked it up, opened it, and then tore it in pieces and tossed it

in the fire.



'The orders are countermanded,' she said.  'I have need of you and you

go with me.  Not to the flats of the Tigris, but to the great hills.

Tomorrow you will receive new passports.'



She gave me her hand and turned to go.  At the threshold she paused,

and looked towards the oak cupboard.  'Tomorrow I will relieve you of

your prisoner.  He will be safer in my hands.'



She left me in a condition of pretty blank bewilderment.  We were to be

tied to the chariot-wheels of this fury, and started on an enterprise

compared to which fighting against our friends at Kut seemed tame and

reasonable.  On the other hand, I had been spotted by Rasta, and had

got the envoy of the most powerful man in Constantinople locked in a

cupboard.  At all costs we had to keep Rasta safe, but I was very

determined that he should not be handed over to the lady.  I was going

to be no party to cold-blooded murder, which I judged to be her

expedient.  It was a pretty kettle of fish, but in the meantime I must

have food, for I had eaten nothing for nine hours.  So I went in search

we would have a try for horses or a lift in some passing wagon.  I had

no hope of another car.  Every automobile in Anatolia would now be at a

premium.



It was so disgusting a mishap that we all took it quietly.  It was too

bad to be helped by hard swearing.  Hussin and Peter set off on

different sides of the road to prospect for a house, and Blenkiron and

I sheltered under the nearest rock and smoked savagely.



Hussin was the first to strike oil.  He came back in twenty minutes

with news of some kind of dwelling a couple of miles up the stream.  He

went off to collect Peter, and, humping our baggage, Blenkiron and I

plodded up the waterside.  Darkness had fallen thick by this time, and

we took some bad tosses among the bogs. When Hussin and Peter overtook

us they found a better road, and presently we saw a light twinkle in

the hollow ahead.



It proved to be a wretched tumble-down farm in a grove of poplars--a

foul-smelling, muddy yard, a two-roomed hovel of a house, and a barn

which was tolerably dry and which we selected for our sleeping-place.

The owner was a broken old fellow whose sons were all at the war, and

he received us with the profound calm of one who expects nothing but

unpleasantness from life.



By this time we had recovered our tempers, and I was trying hard to put

my new Kismet philosophy into practice.  I reckoned that if risks were

foreordained, so were difficulties, and both must be taken as part of

the day's work.  With the remains of our provisions and some curdled

milk we satisfied our hunger and curled ourselves up among the pease

straw of the barn.  Blenkiron announced with a happy sigh that he had

now been for two days quit of his dyspepsia.



That night, I remember, I had a queer dream.  I seemed to be in a wild

place among mountains, and I was being hunted, though who was after me

I couldn't tell.  I remember sweating with fright, for I seemed to be




'You must see the _Sektionschef_,' said our guide.  I looked round to

see if we were all there, and noticed that Hussin had disappeared.  It

did not matter, for he was not on the passports.



We followed as we were directed through an open door.  There was a man

standing with his back towards us looking at a wall map, a very big man

with a neck that bulged over his collar. I would have known that neck

among a million.  At the sight of it I made a half-turn to bolt back.

It was too late, for the door had closed behind us and there were two

armed sentries beside it.



The man slewed round and looked into my eyes.  I had a despairing hope

that I might bluff it out, for I was in different clothes and had

shaved my beard.  But you cannot spend ten minutes in a death-grapple

without your adversary getting to know you.



He went very pale, then recollected himself and twisted his features

into the old grin.



'So,' he said, 'the little Dutchmen!  We meet after many days.'



It was no good lying or saying anything.  I shut my teeth and waited.



'And you, Herr Blenkiron?  I never liked the look of you.  You babbled

too much, like all your damned Americans.'



'I guess your personal dislikes haven't got anything to do with the

matter,' said Blenkiron, calmly.  'If you're the boss here, I'll thank

you to cast your eye over these passports, for we can't stand waiting

for ever.'



This fairly angered him.  'I'll teach you manners,' he cried, and took

a step forward to reach for Blenkiron's shoulder--the game he had twice

played with me.



Blenkiron never took his hands from his coat pockets.  'Keep your

distance,' he drawled in a new voice.  'I've got you covered, and I'll

make a hole in your bullet head if you lay a hand on me.'



With an effort Stumm recovered himself.  He rang a bell and fell to

'Not to be friends with him,' I said, 'but to bust him and all his

kind.'



'Then I'm ready,' said Peter cheerfully.  'What is it?'



I spread out the maps on the divan.  There was no light in the place

but Blenkiron's electric torch, for Hussin had put out the lantern.

Peter got his nose into the things at once, for his intelligence work

in the Boer War had made him handy with maps.  It didn't want much

telling from me to explain to him the importance of the one I had

looted.



'That news is worth many a million pounds,' said he, wrinkling his

brows, and scratching delicately the tip of his left ear.  It was a way

he had when he was startled.



'How can we get it to our friends?'



Peter cogitated.  'There is but one way.  A man must take it. Once, I

remember, when we fought the Matabele it was necessary to find out

whether the chief Makapan was living.  Some said he had died, others

that he'd gone over the Portuguese border, but I believed he lived.  No

native could tell us, and since his kraal was well defended no runner

could get through.  So it was necessary to send a man.'



Peter lifted up his head and laughed.  'The man found the chief

Makapan.  He was very much alive, and made good shooting with a

shot-gun.  But the man brought the chief Makapan out of his kraal and

handed him over to the Mounted Police.  You remember Captain Arcoll,

Dick--Jim Arcoll?  Well, Jim laughed so much that he broke open a wound

in his head, and had to have a doctor.'



'You were that man, Peter,' I said.



'_Ja_.  I was the man.  There are more ways of getting into kraals than

there are ways of keeping people out.'



'Will you take this chance?'



'For certain, Dick.  I am getting stiff with doing nothing, and if I

sit in houses much longer I shall grow old.  A man bet me five pounds




They stood discussing the fire for a minute and presently moved off.

Peter gave them two minutes' law and then clambered back to the highway

and set off along it at a run.  The noise of the shelling and the wind,

together with the thick darkness, made it safe to hurry.



He left the road at the first chance and took to the broken country.

The ground was now rising towards a spur of the Palantuken, on the far

slope of which were the Turkish trenches.  The night had begun by being

pretty nearly as black as pitch; even the smoke from the shell

explosions, which is often visible in darkness, could not be seen.  But

as the wind blew the snow-clouds athwart the sky patches of stars came

out.  Peter had a compass, but he didn't need to use it, for he had a

kind of 'feel' for landscape, a special sense which is born in savages

and can only be acquired after long experience by the white man.  I

believe he could smell where the north lay.  He had settled roughly

which part of the line he would try, merely because of its nearness to

the enemy.  But he might see reason to vary this, and as he moved he

began to think that the safest place was where the shelling was

hottest.  He didn't like the notion, but it sounded sense.



Suddenly he began to puzzle over queer things in the ground, and, as he

had never seen big guns before, it took him a moment to fix them.

Presently one went off at his elbow with a roar like the Last Day.

These were Austrian howitzers--nothing over eight-inch, I fancy, but to

Peter they looked like leviathans.  Here, too, he saw for the first

time a big and quite recent shell-hole, for the Russian guns were

searching out the position.  He was so interested in it all that he

poked his nose where he shouldn't have been, and dropped plump into the

pit behind a gun-emplacement.



Gunners all the world over are the same--shy people, who hide

themselves in holes and hibernate and mortally dislike being detected.

Sleep, my lord, for there is wild work before us.'



I did not sleep much, for I was strung too high with expectation, and I

envied Blenkiron his now eupeptic slumbers.  But for an hour or so I

dropped off, and my old nightmare came back.  Once again I was in the

throat of a pass, hotly pursued, straining for some sanctuary which I

knew I must reach.  But I was no longer alone. Others were with me: how

many I could not tell, for when I tried to see their faces they

dissolved in mist.  Deep snow was underfoot, a grey sky was over us,

black peaks were on all sides, but ahead in the mist of the pass was

that curious _castrol_ which I had first seen in my dream on the

Erzerum road.



I saw it distinct in every detail.  It rose to the left of the road

through the pass, above a hollow where great boulders stood out in the

snow.  Its sides were steep, so that the snow had slipped off in

patches, leaving stretches of glistening black shale.  The _kranz_ at

the top did not rise sheer, but sloped at an angle of forty-five, and

on the very summit there seemed a hollow, as if the earth within the

rock-rim had been beaten by weather into a cup.



That is often the way with a South African _castrol_, and I knew it was

so with this.  We were straining for it, but the snow clogged us, and

our enemies were very close behind.



Then I was awakened by a figure at my side.  'Get ready, my lord,' it

said; 'it is the hour to ride.'







Like sleep-walkers we moved into the sharp air.  Hussin led us out of

an old postern and then through a place like an orchard to the shelter

of some tall evergreen trees.  There horses stood, champing quietly

from their nosebags.  'Good,' I thought; 'a feed of oats before a big

effort.'



There were nine beasts for nine riders.  We mounted without a word and


through a sheen of amethyst.  The artillery were busy all around the

horizon, and towards the pass on the other road, where Fort Palantuken

stood, there was the dust and smoke of a furious bombardment. It seemed

to me, too, that the guns on the other fronts had come nearer.  Deve

Boyun was hidden by a spur of hill, but up in the north, white clouds,

like the streamers of evening, were hanging over the Euphrates glen.

The whole firmament hummed and twanged like a taut string that has been

struck ...



As I looked, the gun to the west fired--the gun where Stumm was.  The

shell dropped ten yards to our right.  A second later another fell

behind us.



Blenkiron had dragged himself to the parapet.  I don't suppose he had

ever been shelled before, but his face showed curiosity rather than

fear.



'Pretty poor shooting, I reckon,' he said.



'On the contrary,' I said, 'they know their business.  They're

bracketing ...'



The words were not out of my mouth when one fell right among us.  It

struck the far rim of the _castrol_, shattering the rock, but bursting

mainly outside.  We all ducked, and barring some small scratches no one

was a penny the worse.  I remember that much of the debris fell on

Hilda von Einem's grave.



I pulled Blenkiron over the far parapet, and called on the rest to

follow, meaning to take cover on the rough side of the hill.  But as we

showed ourselves shots rang out from our front, shots fired from a

range of a few hundred yards.  It was easy to see what had happened.

Riflemen had been sent to hold us in rear.  They would not assault so

long as we remained in the _castrol_, but they would block any attempt

to find safety outside it.  Stumm and his gun had us at their mercy.



We crouched below the parapet again.  'We may as well toss for it,' I

said.  'There's only two ways--to stay here and be shelled or try to

