  Copyright, 1916, by Robert M. McBride & Co.

  Copyright, 1915, by McBride, Nast & Co.

  Copyright, 1914, by the Sewanee Review Quarterly

  Copyright, 1913, by John Adams Thayer Corporation

  Copyright, 1912, by Argonaut Publishing Company

  Copyright, 1911, by Red Book Corporation

  Copyright, 1909, by Harper and Brothers









TO



ROBERT GAMBLE CABELL II









  In Dedication of The Certain Hour



    Sad hours and glad hours, and all hours, pass over;

  One thing unshaken stays:

  Life, that hath Death for spouse, hath Chance for lover;

  Whereby decays



    Each thing save one thing:--mid this strife diurnal

  Of hourly change begot,

  Love that is God-born, bides as God eternal,

  And changes not;--



    Nor means a tinseled dream pursuing lovers

  Find altered by-and-bye,

  When, with possession, time anon discovers

  Trapped dreams must die,--



    For he that visions God, of mankind gathers

  One manlike trait alone,

  And reverently imputes to Him a father's

  Love for his son.









                        CONTENTS



  "_Ballad of the Double-Soul_"

  AUCTORIAL INDUCTION

  BELHS CAVALIERS

  BALTHAZAR'S DAUGHTER

  JUDITH'S CREED

  CONCERNING CORINNA

  OLIVIA'S POTTAGE

  A BROWN WOMAN

  PRO HONORIA

  THE IRRESISTIBLE OGLE

  A PRINCESS OF GRUB STREET

  THE LADY OF ALL OUR DREAMS

  "_Ballad of Plagiary_"









_BALLAD OF THE DOUBLE-SOUL_





"_Les Dieux, qui trop aiment ses faceties cruelles_"--PAUL VERVILLE.




The nineteenth century, in fact, by making education popular, has

produced in America the curious spectacle of a reading-public with

essentially nonliterary tastes.  Formerly, better books were published,

because they were intended for persons who turned to reading through a

natural bent of mind; whereas the modern American novel of commerce is

addressed to us average people who read, when we read at all, in

violation of every innate instinct.



Such grounds as yet exist for hopefulness on the part of those who

cordially care for _belles lettres_ are to be found elsewhere than in

the crowded market-places of fiction, where genuine intelligence

panders on all sides to ignorance and indolence.  The phrase may seem

to have no very civil ring; but reflection will assure the fair-minded

that two indispensable requisites nowadays of a pecuniarily successful

novel are, really, that it make no demand upon the reader's

imagination, and that it rigorously refrain from assuming its reader to

possess any particular information on any subject whatever.  The author

who writes over the head of the public is the most dangerous enemy of

his publisher--and the most insidious as well, because so many

publishers are in private life interested in literary matters, and

would readily permit this personal foible to influence the exercise of

their vocation were it possible to do so upon the preferable side of

bankruptcy.



But publishers, among innumerable other conditions, must weigh the fact

that no novel which does not deal with modern times is ever really

popular among the serious-minded.  It is difficult to imagine a tale

whose action developed under the rule of the Caesars or the

Merovingians being treated as more than a literary _hors d'oeuvre_.  We

purchasers of "vital" novels know nothing about the period, beyond a

hazy association of it with the restrictions of the schoolroom; our

sluggish imaginations instinctively rebel against the exertion of

forming any notion of such a period; and all the human nature that

exists even in serious-minded persons is stirred up to resentment

against the book's author for presuming to know more than a potential

patron.  The book, in fine, simply irritates the serious-minded person;

literary personages of that hour wherein these pages were written--will

inevitably have come to savor somewhat of antiquity: so that sundry

references herein to the "vital" books now most in vogue will rouse

much that vague shrugging recollection as wakens, say, at a mention of

_Dorothy Vernon_ or _Three Weeks_ or _Beverly of Graustark_.  And while

at first glance it might seem expedient--in revising the last

proof-sheets of these pages--somewhat to "freshen them up" by

substituting, for the books herein referred to, the "vital" and more

widely talked-of novels of the summer of 1916, the task would be but

wasted labor; since even these fascinating chronicles, one comprehends

forlornly, must needs be equally obsolete by the time these

proof-sheets have been made into a volume.  With malice aforethought,

therefore, the books and authors named herein stay those which all of

three years back our reviewers and advertising pages, with perfect

gravity, acclaimed as of enduring importance.  For the quaintness of

that opinion, nowadays, may profitably round the moral that there is

really nothing whereto one may fittingly compare a successful

contribution to "vital" reading-matter, as touches evanescence.



And this is as it should be.  _Tout passe.--L'art robust seul a

l'éternité_, precisely as Gautier points out, with bracing

common-sense; and it is excellent thus to comprehend that to-day, as

always, only through exercise of the auctorial virtues of distinction

and clarity, of beauty and symmetry, of tenderness and truth and

urbanity, may a man in reason attempt to insure his books against

oblivion's voracity.



Yet the desire to write perfectly of beautiful happenings is, as the

saying runs, old as the hills--and as immortal.  Questionless, there

was many a serviceable brick wasted in Nineveh because finicky persons

must needs be deleting here and there a phrase in favor of its cuneatic

synonym; and it is not improbable that when the outworn sun expires in

clinkers its final ray will gild such zealots tinkering with their

"style."  This, then, is the conclusion of the whole matter.  Some few

there must be in every age and every land of whom life claims nothing

very insistently save that they write perfectly of beautiful

This woman might have been a wraith in verity, for she was clothed

throughout in white, save for the ponderous gold girdle about her

middle.  A white gorget framed the face which was so pinched and shrewd

and strange; and she peered into the well, smiling craftily.



"I was thinking death was like this well," said Biatritz, without any

cessation of her singular employment--"so dark that we may see nothing

clearly save one faint gleam which shows us, or which seems to show us,

where rest is.  Yes, yes, this is that chaplet which you won in the

tournament at Montferrat when we were young.  Pearls are the symbol of

tears, we read.  But we had no time for reading then, no time for

anything except to be quite happy. . . .  You saw this morning's work.

Raimbaut, were Satan to go mad he would be such a fiend as this

Guillaume de Baux who is our master!"



"Ay, the man is as cruel as my old opponent, Mourzoufle," Sire Raimbaut

answered, with a patient shrug.  "It is a great mystery why such

persons should win all which they desire of this world.  We can but

recognize that it is for some sufficient reason."  Then he talked with

her concerning the aforementioned infamous emperor of the East, against

whom the old knight had fought, and of Enrico Dandolo and of King

Boniface, dead brother to Madona Biatritz, and of much remote,

outlandish adventuring oversea.  Of Zoraida he did not speak.  And

Biatritz, in turn, told him of that one child which she had borne her

husband, Prince Conrat--a son who died in infancy; and she spoke of

this dead baby, who living would have been their monarch, with a sweet

quietude that wrung the old knight's heart.



Thus these spent people sat and talked for a long while, the talk

veering anywhither just as chance directed.  Blurred gusts of song and

laughter would come to them at times from the hall where Guillaume de

Baux drank with his courtiers, and these would break the tranquil flow

of speech.  Then, unvexedly, the gentle voice of the speaker, were it

man bowed ceremoniously.  All were still.  Composedly, like a

lieutenant before his captain, Mahi narrated how these hunted remnants

of Lovain's army had, as a last cast, that night invaded the chateau,

and had found, thanks to the festival, its men-at-arms in uniform and

inefficient drunkenness.  "My tres beau sire," Messire de Vernoil

ended, "will you or nill you, Venaissin is yours this morning.  My

knaves have slain Philibert and his bewildered fellow-tipplers with

less effort than is needed to drown as many kittens."



And his followers cried, as upon a signal: "Hail, Prince of Orange!"



It was so like the wonder-working of a dream--this sudden and heroic

uproar--that old Raimbaut de Vaquieras stood reeling, near to intimacy

with fear for the first time.  He waited thus, with both hands pressed

before his eyes.  He waited thus for a long while, because he was not

used to find chance dealing kindlily with him.  Later he saw that

Makrisi had vanished in the tumult, and that many people awaited his

speaking.



The lord of Venaissin began: "You have done me a great service, Messire

de Vemoil.  As recompense, I give you what I may.  I freely yield you

all my right in Venaissin.  Oh no, kingcraft is not for me.  I daily

see and hear of battles won, cities beleaguered, high towers

overthrown, and ancient citadels and new walls leveled with the dust.

I have conversed with many kings, the directors of these events, and

they were not happy people.  Yes, yes, I have witnessed divers

happenings, for I am old. . . .  I have found nothing which can serve

me in place of honor."



He turned to Dona Biatritz.  It was as if they were alone.  "Belhs

Cavaliers," he said, "I had sworn fealty to this Guillaume.  He

violated his obligations; but that did not free me of mine.  An oath is

an oath.  I was, and am to-day, sworn to support his cause, and to

profit in any fashion by its overthrow would be an abominable action.

Nay, more, were any of his adherents alive it would be my manifest duty

knife-thrust.  If he could make a match with you, though, your

father--thrifty man!--would be easily appeased.  Your cousins, those

proud, grumbling Castel-Franchi, Strossi and Valori, would not prove

over-obdurate toward a kinsman who, whatever his past indiscretions,

has so many pensions and offices at his disposal.  Yes, honor would

permit a truce, and Eglamore could bind them to his interests within

ten days, and be rid of the necessity of sleeping in chain armor. . . .

Have I not unraveled the scheme correctly, Eglamore?"



"Your highness was never lacking in penetration," replied the other in

a dull voice.  He stood motionless, holding the gloves, his shoulders a

little bowed as if under some physical load.  His eyes were fixed upon

the ground.  He divined the change in Graciosa's face and did not care

to see it.



"And so you are Count Eglamore," said Graciosa in a sort of whisper.

"That is very strange.  I had thought you were my friend, Guido.  But I

forget.  I must not call you Guido any longer."  She gave a little

shiver here.  He stayed motionless and did not look at her.  "I have

often wondered what manner of man you were.  So it was you--whose hand

I touched just now--you who poisoned Duke Cosmo, you who had the good

cardinal assassinated, you who betrayed the brave lord of Faenza!  Oh,

yes, they openly accuse you of every imaginable crime--this patient

Eglamore, this reptile who has crept into his power through filthy

passages.  It is very strange you should be capable of so much

wickedness, for to me you seem only a sullen lackey."



He winced and raised his eyes at this.  His face remained

expressionless.  He knew these accusations at least to be demonstrable

lies, for as it happened he had never found his advancement to hinge

upon the commission of the crimes named.  But even so, the past was a

cemetery he did not care to have revivified.



"And it was you who detected the Marquis of Cibo's conspiracy.

Tebaldeo was my cousin, Count Eglamore, and I loved him.  We were

worth the value of these castles and lands and other things which you

gave up because of me, so that it will be necessary to make up the

difference, dear, by loving you very much."



And at that he touched her chin, gently and masterfully, for Graciosa

would have averted her face, and it seemed to Eglamore that he could

never have his fill of gazing on the radiant, shamed tenderness of

Graciosa's face.  "Oh, my girl!" he whispered.  "Oh, my wonderful,

worshiped, merry girl, whom God has fashioned with such loving care!

you who had only scorn to give me when I was a kingdom's master! and

would you go with me now that I am friendless and homeless?"



"But I shall always have a friend," she answered--"a friend who showed

me what Balthazar's daughter was and what love is.  And I am vain

enough to believe I shall not ever be very far from home so long as I

am near to my friend's heart."



A mortal man could not but take her in his arms.



"Farewell, Duke Alessandro!" then said Eglamore; "farewell, poor clay

so plastic the least touch remodels you!  I had a part in shaping you

so bestial; our age, too, had a part--our bright and cruel day, wherein

you were set too high.  Yet for me it would perhaps have proved as easy

to have made a learned recluse of you, Alessandro, or a bloodless

saint, if to do that had been as patently profitable.  For you and all

your kind are so much putty in the hands of circumspect fellows such as

I.  But I stood by and let our poisoned age conform that putty into the

shape of a crazed beast, because it took that form as readily as any

other, and in taking it, best served my selfish ends.  Now I must pay

for that sorry shaping, just as, I think, you too must pay some day.

And so, I cry farewell with loathing, but with compassion also!"



Then these two turned toward the hills, leaving Duke Alessandro where

he lay in the road, a very lamentable figure in much bloodied finery.

give forth no more heart-wringing music, for the musician had departed.

And I still lived--I, the stout little tradesman whom you loathed.

Yes, that tradesman scrambled through these evils, somehow, and came

out still able to word adequately all such imaginings as could be

devised by his natural abilities.  But he transmitted no more

heart-wringing music."



She said, "You lie!"



He said, "I thank Heaven daily that I do not."  He spoke the truth.

She knew it, and her heart was all rebellion.



Indefatigable birds sang through the following hush.  A wholesome and

temperate breeze caressed these silent people.  Bees that would die

to-morrow hummed about them tirelessly.



Then the poet said:  "I loved you; and you did not love me.  It is the

most commonplace of tragedies, the heart of every man alive has been

wounded in this identical fashion.  A master-poet is only that wounded

man--among so many other bleeding folk--who perversely augments his

agony, and utilizes his wound as an inkwell.  Presently time scars over

the cut for him, as time does for all the others.  He does not suffer

any longer.  No, and such relief is a clear gain; but none the less, he

must henceforward write with ordinary ink such as the lawyers use."



"I should have been the man," the woman cried.  "Had I been sure of

fame, could I have known those raptures when you used to gabble

immortal phrases like a stammering infant, I would have paid the price

without all this whimpering."



"Faith, and I think you would have," he assented.  "There is the

difference.  At bottom I am a creature of the most moderate

aspirations, as you always complained; and for my part, Fate must in

reason demand her applause of posterity rather than of me.  For I

regret the unlived life that I was meant for--the comfortable level

life of little happenings which all my schoolfellows have passed

through in a stolid drove.  I was equipped to live that life with

relish, and that life only; and it was denied me.  It was demolished in

hideous dreamy man, who, without ever perpetrating any actual

discourtesy, always managed to dismiss them, somehow, with a sense of

having been rebuffed.



Sir Thomas Browne, that ardent amateur of the curious, came into Devon,

however, without the risk of incurring any such fate, inasmuch as the

knight traveled westward simply to discuss with Master Philip Borsdale

the recent doings of Cardinal Alioneri.  Now, Philip Borsdale, as Sir

Thomas knew, had been employed by Herrick in various transactions here

irrelevant.  In consequence, Sir Thomas Browne was not greatly

surprised when, on his arrival at Buckfastleigh, Borsdale's

body-servant told him that Master Borsdale had left instructions for

Sir Thomas to follow him to Dean Prior.  Browne complied, because his

business with Borsdale was of importance.



Philip Borsdale was lounging in Dr. Herrick's chair, intent upon a

lengthy manuscript, alone and to all appearances quite at home.  The

state of the room Sir Thomas found extraordinary; but he had graver

matters to discuss; and he explained the results of his mission without

extraneous comment.



"Yes, you have managed it to admiration," said Philip Borsdale, when

the knight had made an end.  Borsdale leaned back and laughed,

purringly, for the outcome of this affair of the Cardinal and the Wax

Image meant much to him from a pecuniary standpoint.  "Yet it is odd a

prince of any church which has done so much toward the discomfiture of

sorcery should have entertained such ideas.  It is also odd to note the

series of coincidences which appears to have attended this Alioneri's

practises."



"I noticed that," said Sir Thomas.  After a while he said:  "You think,

then, that they must have been coincidences?"



"MUST is a word which intelligent people do not outwear by too constant

usage."



And "Oh----?" said the knight, and said that alone, because he was

familiar with the sparkle now in Borsdale's eyes, and knew it heralded

an adventure for an amateur of the curious.



"I am not committing myself, mark you, Sir Thomas, to any statement

whatever, beyond the observation that these coincidences were

madman's dream, dear lad, and we must not dare to consider it

seriously, lest we become no more sane than he."



"But you will aid me?" Borsdale said.



"Yes, I will aid you, Philip, for in Herrick's case I take it that the

mischief is consummated already; and we, I think, risk nothing worse

than death.  But you will need another knife a little later--a knife

that will be clean."



"I had forgotten."  Borsdale withdrew, and presently returned with a

bone-handled knife.  And then he made a light.  "Are you quite ready,

sir?"



Sir Thomas Browne, that aging amateur of the curious, could not resist

a laugh.



And then they sat about proceedings of which, for obvious reasons, the

details are best left unrecorded.  It was not an unconscionable while

before they seemed to be aware of unusual phenomena.  But as Sir Thomas

always pointed out, in subsequent discussions, these were quite

possibly the fruitage of excited imagination.



"Now, Philip!--now, give me the knife!" cried Sir Thomas Browne.  He

knew for the first time, despite many previous mischancy happenings,

what real terror was.



The room was thick with blinding smoke by this, so that Borsdale could

see nothing save his co-partner in this adventure.  Both men were

shaken by what had occurred before.  Borsdale incuriously perceived

that old Sir Thomas rose, tense as a cat about to pounce, and that he

caught the unstained knife from Borsdale's hand, and flung it like a

javelin into the vapor which encompassed them.  This gesture stirred

the smoke so that Borsdale could see the knife quiver and fall, and

note the tiny triangle of unbared plaster it had cut in the painted

woman's breast.  Within the same instant he had perceived a naked man

who staggered.



"_Iz adu kronyeshnago_----!"  The intruder's thin, shrill wail was that

of a frightened child.  The man strode forward, choked, seemed to grope

his way.  His face was not good to look at.  Horror gripped and tore at

every member of the cadaverous old body, as a high wind tugs at a flag.



Wycherley discovered in a while the absence of his sleeve-links, and

was properly vexed by the loss of these not unhandsome trinkets, the

gifts of Lady Castlemaine in the old days when Mr. Wycherley was the

King's successful rival for her favors.  But Wycherley knew the tide

filled Teviot Bay and wondering fishes were at liberty to muzzle the

toys, by this, and merely shrugged at his mishap, midcourse in toilet.



Mr. Wycherley, upon mature deliberation, wore the green suit with

yellow ribbons, since there was a ball that night in honor of his

nearing marriage, and a confluence of gentry to attend it.  Miss Vining

and he walked through a minuet to some applause; the two were heartily

acclaimed a striking couple, and congratulations beat about their ears

as thick as sugar-plums in a carnival.  And at nine you might have

found the handsome dramatist alone upon the East Terrace of Ouseley,

pacing to and fro in the moonlight, and complacently reflecting upon

his quite indisputable and, past doubt, unmerited good fortune.



There was never any night in June which nature planned the more

adroitly.  Soft and warm and windless, lit by a vainglorious moon and

every star that ever shone, the beauty of this world caressed and

heartened its beholder like a gallant music.  Our universe, Mr.

Wycherley conceded willingly, was excellent and kindly, and the Arbiter

of it too generous; for here was he, the wastrel, like the third prince

at the end of a fairy-tale, the master of a handsome wife, and a fine

house and fortune.  Somewhere, he knew, young Minifie, with his arm in

a sling, was pleading with Mistress Araminta for the last time; and

this reflection did not greatly trouble Mr. Wycherley, since

incommunicably it tickled his vanity.  He was chuckling when he came to

the open window.



Within a woman was singing, to the tinkling accompaniment of a spinet,

for the delectation of Lord Remon.  She was not uncomely, and the hard,

lean, stingy countenance of the attendant nobleman was almost genial.

Wycherley understood with a great rending shock, as though the thought

were novel, that Olivia, Lady Drogheda, designed to marry this man, who

And what Mr. Wycherley saw was a substantial boat rowed by four of Mr.

Minifie's attendants; and in the bow of the vessel sat that wounded

gentleman himself, regarding Wycherley and Lady Drogheda with some

disfavor; and beside the younger man was Mistress Araminta Vining.



It was a perturbed Minifie who broke the silence.  "This is very

awkward," he said, "because Araminta and I are eloping.  We mean to be

married this same night at Milanor.  And deuce take it, Mr. Wycherley!

I can't leave you there to drown, any more than in the circumstances I

can ask you to make one of the party."



"Mr.  Wycherley," said his companion, with far more asperity, "the

vanity and obduracy of a cruel father have forced me to the adoption of

this desperate measure.  Toward yourself I entertain no ill-feeling,

nor indeed any sentiment at all except the most profound contempt.  My

aunt will, of course, accompany us; for yourself, you will do as you

please; but in any event I solemnly protest that I spurn your odious

pretensions, release myself hereby from an enforced and hideous

obligation, and in a phrase would not marry you in order to be Queen of

England."



"Miss Vining, I had hitherto admired you," the beau replied, with

fervor, "but now esteem is changed to adoration."



Then he turned to his Olivia.  "Madam, you will pardon the awkward but

unavoidable publicity of my proceeding.  I am a ruined man.  I owe your

brother-in-law some L1500, and, oddly enough, I mean to pay him.  I

must sell Jephcot and Skene Minor, but while life lasts I shall keep

Bessington and all its memories.  Meanwhile there is a clergyman

waiting at Milanor.  So marry me to-night, Olivia; and we will go back

to Bessington to-morrow."



"To Bessington----!" she said.  It was as though she spoke of something

very sacred.  Then very musically Lady Drogheda laughed, and to the eye

she was all flippancy.  "La, William, I can't bury myself in the

country until the end of time," she said, "and make interminable




"And, besides, he thinks you mean to marry her!" said John Hughes.



"My dear man, he pardonably forgets that the utmost reach of my designs

in common reason would be to have her as my kept mistress for a month

or two," drawled Mr. Pope.  "As concerns yourself, my good fellow, the

case is somewhat different.  Why, it is a veritable romance--an affair

of Daphne and Corydon--although, to be unpardonably candid, the plot of

your romance, my young Arcadians, is not the most original conceivable.

I think that the denouement need not baffle our imaginations."



The dwarf went toward Sarah Drew.  The chary sunlight had found the

gold in her hair, and its glint was brightly visible to him.  "My

dear--" he said.  His thin long fingers touched her capable hand.  It

was a sort of caress--half-timid.  "My dear, I owe my life to you.  My

body is at most a flimsy abortion such as a night's exposure would have

made more tranquil than it is just now.  Yes, it was you who found a

caricature of the sort of man that Mr. Hughes here is, disabled,

helpless, and--for reasons which doubtless seemed to you

sufficient--contrived that this unsightly parody continue in existence.

I am not lovable, my dear.  I am only a hunchback, as you can see.  My

aspirations and my sickly imaginings merit only the derision of a

candid clean-souled being such as you are."  His finger-tips touched

the back of her hand again.  "I think there was never a maker of

enduring verse who did not at one period or another long to exchange an

assured immortality for a sturdier pair of shoulders.  I think--I think

that I am prone to speak at random," Pope said, with his half-drowsy

smile.  "Yet, none the less, an honest man, as our kinsmen in Adam

average, is bound to pay his equitable debts."



She said, "I do not understand."



"I have perpetrated certain jingles," Pope returned.  "I had not

comprehended until to-day they are the only children I shall leave

behind me.  Eh, and what would you make of them, my dear, could

But, then, I don't believe I ever saw these lovers----?"



"John was a well-set man of about five-and-twenty," replied Mr. Pope;

"and Sarah was a brown woman of eighteen years, three months and

fourteen days."



Then these two dipped their pens and set about a moving composition,

which has to-day its proper rating among Mr. Pope's Complete Works.









PRO HONORIA





"_But that sense of negation, of theoretic insecurity, which was in the

air, conspiring with what was of like tendency in himself, made of Lord

UFFORD a central type of disillusion. . . .  He had been amiable

because the general betise of humanity did not in his opinion greatly

matter, after all; and in reading these 'SATIRES' it is well-nigh

painful to witness the blind and naked forces of nature and

circumstance surprising him in the uncontrollable movements of his own

so carefully guarded heart._"







  Why is a handsome wife adored

  By every coxcomb but her lord?



  From yonder puppet-man inquire

  Who wisely hides his wood and wire;

  Shows Sheba's queen completely dress'd

  And Solomon in royal vest;



  But view them litter'd on the floor,

  Or strung on pegs behind the door,

  Punch is exactly of a piece

  With Lorrain's duke, and prince of Greece.



  HORACE CALVERLEY.--_Petition to the Duke of Ormskirk_.









PRO HONORIA



In the early winter of 1761 the Earl of Bute, then Secretary of State,

gave vent to an outburst of unaccustomed profanity.  Mr. Robert

Calverley, who represented England at the Court of St. Petersburg, had

resigned his office without prelude or any word of explanation.  This

infuriated Bute, since his pet scheme was to make peace with Russia and

thereby end the Continental War.  Now all was to do again; the minister

raged, shrugged, furnished a new emissary with credentials, and marked

Calverley's name for punishment.


wonderful throughout."



The brows of Ufford knit.  "Would you consent to live as a transported

felon?  I have much money.  I need not tell you the last penny is at

your disposal.  It might be possible to bribe.  Indeed, Lord Bute is

all-powerful to-day and he would perhaps procure a pardon for you at my

entreaty.  He is so kind as to admire my scribblings. . .  Or you might

live among your fellow-convicts somewhere over sea for a while longer.

I had not thought that such would be your choice----"  Here Ufford

shrugged, restrained by courtesy.  "Besides, Lord Bute is greatly

angered with you, because you have endangered his Russian alliance.

However, if you wish it, I will try----"



"Oh, for that matter, I do not much fear Lord Bute, because I bring him

the most welcome news he has had in many a day.  I may tell you since

it will be public to-morrow.  The Tzaritza Elizabeth, our implacable

enemy, died very suddenly three weeks ago.  Peter of Holstein-Gottrop

reigns to-day in Russia, and I have made terms with him.  I came to

tell Lord Bute the Cossack troops have been recalled from Prussia.  The

war is at an end."  Young Calverley meditated and gave his customary

boyish smile.  "Yes, I discharged my Russian mission after all--even

after I had formally relinquished it--because I was so opportunely

aided by the accident of the Tzaritza's death.  And Bute cares only for

results.  So I would explain to him that I resigned my mission simply

because in Russia my wife could not have lived out another year----"



The earl exclaimed, "Then Honoria is ill!" Mr. Calverley did not

attend, but stood looking out into the Venetian Chamber.



"See, Horace, she is dancing with Anchester while I wait here so near

to death.  She dances well.  But Honoria does everything adorably.  I

cannot tell you--oh, not even you!--how happy these three years have

been with her.  Eh, well! the gods are jealous of such happiness.  You

will remember how her mother died?  It appears that Honoria is

Sheridan," the beautiful intruder said.  "And I hasten to protest that

my presence in your apartments at this hour is prompted by no unworthy

motive.  I merely came to steal the famous diamond which you brought

from London--the Honor of Eiran."



"Incomparable Esther Jane," ran Mr. Sheridan's answer, "that stone is

now part of a brooch which was this afternoon returned to my cousin's,

the Earl of Eiran's, hunting-lodge near Melrose.  He intends the gem

which you are vainly seeking among my haberdashery to be the adornment

of his promised bride in the ensuing June.  I confess to no

overwhelming admiration as concerns this raucous if meritorious young

person; and will even concede that the thought of her becoming my

kinswoman rouses in me an inevitable distaste, no less attributable to

the discord of her features than to the source of her eligibility to

disfigure the peerage--that being her father's lucrative transactions

in Pork, which I find indigestible in any form."



"A truce to paltering!" Miss Ogle cried.  "That jewel was stolen from

the temple at Moorshedabad, by the Earl of Eiran's grandfather, during

the confusion necessarily attendant on the glorious battle of Plassy."

She laid down the pistol, and resumed in milder tones:  "From an

age-long existence as the left eye of Ganesh it was thus converted into

the loot of an invader.  To restore this diamond to its lawful,

although no doubt polygamous and inefficiently-attired proprietors is

at this date impossible.  But, oh! what claim have you to its

possession?"



"Why, none whatever," said the parliamentarian; "and to contend as much

would be the apex of unreason.  For this diamond belongs, of course, to

my cousin the Earl of Eiran----"



"As a thief's legacy!"  She spoke with signs of irritation.



"Eh, eh, you go too fast!  Eiran, to do him justice, is not a graduate

in peculation.  At worst, he is only the sort of fool one's cousins

ordinarily are."



The trousered lady walked to and fro for a while, with the impatience

of a caged lioness.  "I perceive I must go more deeply into matters,"

declaration of a man and woman that they are married constitutes a

marriage."



"Oh----!" she exclaimed, and stood encrimsoned.



"Indeed, I must confess that the day's work has been a trick

throughout.  The diamond was pawned years ago.  This trinket here is a

copy in paste and worth perhaps some seven shillings sixpence.  And

those fellows were not constables, but just my cousin Eiran and two

footmen in disguise.  Nay, madam, you will learn with experience that

to display unfailing candor is not without exception the price of

happiness."



"But this, I think, evades our bargain, Mr. Sheridan.  For you were

committed to pilfer property to the value of L10,000----"



"And to fulfil the obligation I have stolen your hand in marriage.

What, madam! do you indeed pretend that any person outside of Bedlam

would value you at less?  Believe me, your perfections are of far more

worth.  All persons recognize that save yourself, incomparable Esther

Jane; and yet, so patent is the proof of my contention, I dare to leave

the verdict to your sense of justice."



Miss Ogle did not speak.  Her lashes fell as, with some ceremony, he

led her to the long French mirror which was in the breakfast room.

"See now!" said Mr. Sheridan.  "You, who endanger life and fame in

order to provide a mendicant with gruel, tracts and blankets!  You, who

deny a sop to the one hunger which is vital!  Oh, madam, I am tempted

glibly to compare your eyes to sapphires, and your hair to thin-spun

gold, and the color of your flesh to the arbutus-flower--for that, as

you can see, would be within the truth, and it would please most women,

and afterward they would not be so obdurate.  But you are not like

other women," Mr. Sheridan observed, with admirable dexterity.  "And I

aspire to you, the irresistible Ogle! you, who so great-heartedly

befriend the beggar! you, who with such industry contrive alleviation

for the discomforts of poverty.  Eh, eh! what will you grant to any

beggar such as I?  Will you deny a sop to the one hunger which is

However, with the assistance of his cousin--who, incidentally, was also

his heir--the prince most opportunely died.  Oh, pedant that you are!

in any event he was interred.  And so, the prince was gathered to his

fathers, and his cousin Augustus reigned in his stead.  Until a certain

politician who had been privy to this pious fraud----"  The tutor

shrugged.  "How can I word it without seeming hypercritical?"



Georges Desmarets stretched out appealing hands.  "But, I protest, it

was the narrow-mindedness of that pernicious prig, your cousin--who

firmly believes himself to be an improved and augmented edition of the

Four Evangelists----"



"Well, in any event, the proverb was attested that birds of a feather

make strange bedfellows.  There was a dispute concerning some petit

larceny--some slight discrepancy, we will imagine, since all this is

pure romance, in the politician's accounts----"



"Now you belie me----" said the black-haired man, and warmly.



"Oh, Desmarets, you are as vain as ever!  Let us say, then, of grand

larceny.  In any event, the politician was dismissed.  And what, my

dears, do you suppose this bold and bad and unprincipled Machiavelli

went and did?  Why, he made straight for the father of the princess the

usurping duke was going to marry, and surprised everybody by showing

that, at a pinch, even this Guy Fawkes--who was stuffed with all manner

of guile and wickedness where youthful patriotism would ordinarily

incline to straw--was capable of telling the truth.  And so the father

broke off the match.  And the enamored, if usurping, duke wept bitterly

and tore his hair to such an extent he totally destroyed his best

toupet.  And privily the Guy Fawkes came into the presence of the

exiled duke and prated of a restoration to ancestral dignities.  And he

was spurned by a certain highly intelligent person who considered it

both tedious and ridiculous to play at being emperor of a backyard.

And then--I really don't recall what happened.  But there was a general

and unqualified deuce to pay with no pitch at a really satisfying

temperature."



The stouter man said quietly:  "It is a thrilling tale which you

And Mildred Claridge said, "It is not fair for dreamers such as you to

let a woman know just how he loves her.  That is not wooing.  It is

bullying."



His lips were making a variety of irrational noises.  And he was near

to her.  Also he realized that he had never known how close akin were

fear and joy, so close the two could mingle thus, and be quite

undistinguishable.  And then repentance smote him.



"I am contemptible!" he groaned.  "I had no right to trouble you with

my insanities.  Indeed I had not ever meant to let you guess how mad I

was.  But always I have evaded my responsibilities.  So I remain Prince

Fribble to the last."



"Oh, but I knew, I have always known."  She held her eyes away from

him.  "And I wrote to Lord Brudenel only yesterday releasing him from

his engagement."



And now without uncertainty or haste Paul Vanderhoffen touched her

cheek and raised her face, so that he saw it plainly in the rising

twilight, and all its wealth of tenderness newborn.  And what he saw

there frightened him.



For the girl loved him!  He felt himself to be, as most men do, a

swindler when he comprehended this preposterous fact; and, in addition,

he thought of divers happenings, such as shipwrecks, holocausts and

earthquakes, which might conceivably have appalled him, and understood

that he would never in his life face any sense of terror as huge as was

this present sweet and illimitable awe.



And then he said, "You know that what I hunger for is impossible.

There are so many little things, like common-sense, to be considered.

For this is just a matter which concerns you and Paul Vanderhoffen--a

literary hack, a stuttering squeak-voiced ne'er-do-well, with an

acquired knack for scribbling verses that are feeble-minded enough for

Annuals and Keepsake Books, and so fetch him an occasional guinea.

For, my dear, the verses I write of my own accord are not sufficiently

genteel to be vended in Paternoster Row; they smack too dangerously of

and so you two will not prove uncongenial.  That is your real tragedy,

if I could make you comprehend."



"So I am going to develop into a pig," he said, with relish,--"a

lovable, contented, unambitious porcine, who is alike indifferent to

the Tariff, the importance of Equal Suffrage and the market-price of

hams, for all that he really cares about is to have his sty as

comfortable as may be possible.  That is exactly what I am going to

develop into,--now, isn't it?"  And John Charteris, sitting, as was his

habitual fashion, with one foot tucked under him, laughed cheerily.

Oh, just to be alive (he thought) was ample cause for rejoicing! and

how deliciously her eyes, alert with slumbering fires, were peering

through the moon-made shadows of her brows!



"Well----! something of the sort." Pauline was smiling, but

restrainedly, and much as a woman does in condoning the naughtiness of

her child.  "And, oh, if only----"



"Why, precisely.  'If only!' quotha.  Why, there you word the key-note,

you touch the cornerstone, you ruthlessly illuminate the mainspring, of

an intractable unfeeling universe.  For instance, if only



  You were the Empress of Ayre and Skye,

      And I were Ahkond of Kong,

  We could dine every day on apple-pie,

  And peddle potatoes, and sleep in a sty,

  And people would say when we came to die,

  'They _never_ did anything wrong.'



But, as it is, our epitaphs will probably be nothing of the sort.  So

that there lurks, you see, much virtue in this 'if only.'"



Impervious to nonsense, she asked, "And have I not earned the right to

lament that you are changed?"



"I haven't robbed more than six churches up to date," he grumbled.

"What would you have?"



The answer came, downright, and, as he knew, entirely truthful:  "I

would have had you do all that you might have done."



But he must needs refine.  "Why, no--you would have made me do it,


