

VIII.



IX.



X.



XI.



XII.



XIII.



XIV.



XV.



XVI.



XVII.



XVIII.



XIX.



XX.



XXI.



XXII.



XXIII.



XXIV.



XXV.



XXVI.



XXVII.



XXVIII.



XXIX.



XXX.



XXXI.



XXXII.



XXXIII.









THE CHARACTERS



Colonel Thomas Hugonin, formerly in the service of Her Majesty the

Empress of India, Margaret Hugonin's father.



Frederick R. Woods, the founder of Selwoode, Margaret's uncle by

marriage.



Billy Woods, his nephew, Margaret's quondam fiancé.



Hugh Van Orden, a rather young young man, Margaret's adorer.



Martin Jeal, M.D., of Fairhaven, Margaret's family physician.



Cock-Eye Flinks, a gentleman of leisure, Margaret's chance

acquaintance.



Petheridge Jukesbury, president of the Society for the Suppression of

Nicotine and the Nude, Margaret's almoner in furthering the cause of

education and temperance.



Felix Kennaston, a minor poet, Margaret's almoner in furthering the

cause of literature and art.



Sarah Ellen Haggage, Madame President of the Ladies' League for the

Edification of the Impecunious, Margaret's almoner in furthering the

cause of charity and philanthropy. Kathleen Eppes Saumarez, a lecturer

before women's clubs, Margaret's almoner in furthering the cause of

theosophy, nature study, and rational dress.



Adèle Haggage, Mrs. Haggage's daughter, Margaret's rival with Hugh Van

Orden.



And Margaret Hugonin.



The other participants in the story are Wilkins, Célestine, The Spring

Moon and The Eagle.









LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS



"Margaret"



"'Altogether,' says Colonel Hugonin, 'they strike me as being the

most ungodly menagerie ever gotten together under one roof since Noah

landed on Ararat'"



"Then, for no apparent reason, Margaret flushed, and Billy ... thought

it vastly becoming"

"It's nonsense," pursued the old gentleman, "utter, bedlamite

nonsense, filling Selwoode up with writing people! Never heard of such

a thing. Gad, I do remember, as a young man, meeting Thackeray at a

garden-party at Orleans House--gentlemanly fellow with a broken nose--

and Browning went about a bit, too, now I think of it. People had 'em

one at a time to lend flavour to a dinner--like an olive; we didn't

dine on olives, though. You have 'em for breakfast, luncheon, dinner,

and everything! I'm sick of olives, I tell you, Margaret!" Margaret

pouted.



"They ain't even good olives. I looked into one of that fellow

Charteris's books the other day--that chap you had here last week.

It was bally rot--proverbs standing on their heads and grinning

like dwarfs in a condemned street-fair! Who wants to be told that

impropriety is the spice of life and that a roving eye gathers

remorse? _You_ may call that sort of thing cleverness, if you like; I

call it damn' foolishness." And the emphasis with which he said this

left no doubt that the Colonel spoke his honest opinion.



"Attractive," said his daughter patiently, "Mr. Charteris is very,

very clever. Mr. Kennaston says literature suffered a considerable

loss when he began to write for the magazines."



And now that Margaret has spoken, permit me to call your attention to

her voice. Mellow and suave and of astonishing volume was Margaret's

voice; it came not from the back of her throat, as most of our women's

voices do, but from her chest; and I protest it had the timbre of a

violin. Men, hearing her voice for the first time, were wont to stare

at her a little and afterward to close their hands slowly, for always

its modulations had the tonic sadness of distant music, and it

thrilled you to much the same magnanimity and yearning, cloudily

conceived; and yet you could not but smile in spite of yourself at the

quaint emphasis fluttering through her speech and pouncing for the

most part on the unlikeliest word in the whole sentence.



But I fancy the Colonel must have been tone-deaf. "Don't you make


time, so far as known, in his lifetime; then he tiptoed to his own

apartments, lest Billy--the lazy young rascal was still abed in the

next room--should awaken and discover his knowledge of this act of

flat rebellion.



I dare say the old gentleman was so completely accustomed to having

his own way that this unlooked-for opposition tickled him by its

novelty; or perhaps he recognised in Billy an obstinacy akin to his

own; or perhaps it was merely that he loved the boy. In any event, he

never again alluded to the subject; and it is a fact that when

Billy sent for carpenters to convert an upper room into an atelier,

Frederick R. Woods spent two long and dreary weeks in Boston in order

to remain in ignorance of the entire affair.



Billy scrambled through college, somehow, in the allotted four years.

At the end of that time, he returned to find new inmates installed at

Selwoode.



For the wife of Frederick R. Woods had been before her marriage one of

the beautiful Anstruther sisters, who, as certain New Yorkers still

remember--those grizzled, portly, rosy-gilled fellows who prattle

on provocation of Jenny Lind and Castle Garden, and remember

everything--created a pronounced furor at their début in the days of

crinoline and the Grecian bend; and Margaret Anstruther, as they

will tell you, was married to Thomas Hugonin, then a gallant cavalry

officer in the service of Her Majesty, the Empress of India.



And she must have been the nicer of the two, because everybody who

knew her says that Margaret Hugonin is exactly like her.



So it came about naturally enough, that Billy Woods, now an _Artium

Baccalaureus_, if you please, and not a little proud of it, found the

Colonel and his daughter, then on a visit to this country, installed

at Selwoode as guests and quasi-relatives. And Billy was twenty-two,

and Margaret was nineteen.



       *       *       *       *       *



Precisely what happened I am unable to tell you. Billy Woods claims

was in the pink of condition. Oh, yes, she was quite well. She hoped

Mr. Woods would not find America--



"Well, Peggy," said Mr. Woods, "then, we'll have it out right here."



His insolence was so surprising that--in order to recover

herself--Margaret actually sat down under the maple-tree. Peggy,

indeed! Why, she hadn't been called Peggy for--no, not for four whole

years!



"Because I intend to be friends, you know," said Mr. Woods.



And about them the maple-leaves made a little island of sombre green,

around which more vivid grasses rippled and dimpled under the fitful

spring breezes. And everywhere leaves lisped to one another, and birds

shrilled insistently. It was a perilous locality.



I fancy Billy Woods was out of his head when he suggested being

friends in such a place. Friends, indeed!--you would have thought from

the airy confidence with which he spoke that Margaret had come safely

to forty year and wore steel-rimmed spectacles!



But Miss Hugonin merely cast down her eyes and was aware of no reason

why they shouldn't be. She was sure he must be hungry, and she thought

luncheon must be ready by now.



In his soul, Mr. Woods observed that her lashes were long--long beyond

all reason. Lacking the numbers that Petrarch flowed in, he did not

venture, even to himself, to characterise them further. But oh, how

queer it was they should be pure gold at the roots!--she must have

dipped them in the ink-pot. And oh, the strong, sudden, bewildering

curve of 'em! He could not recall at the present moment ever noticing

quite such lashes anywhere else. No, it was highly improbable that

there were such lashes anywhere else. Perhaps a few of the superior

angels might have such lashes. He resolved for the future to attend

church more regularly.



Aloud, Mr. Woods observed that in that case they had better shake

hands.



It would have been ridiculous to contest the point. The dignified

course was to shake hands, since he insisted on it, and then to return

at once to Selwoode.



Margaret Hugonin had a pretty hand, and Mr. Woods, as an artist, could

him. The Colonel liked Billy; and furthermore, the poor Colonel's

position at Selwoode just now was not utterly unlike that of the

suppositious mariner; were I minded to venture into metaphor, I should

picture him as clinging desperately to the rock of an old fogeyism

and surrounded by weltering seas of advanced thought. Colonel Hugonin

himself was not advanced in his ideas. Also, he had forceful opinions

as to the ultimate destination of those who were.



Then Billy was presented to the men of the party--Mr. Felix Kennaston

and Mr. Petheridge Jukesbury. Mrs. Haggage he knew slightly; and

Kathleen Saumarez he had known very well indeed, some six years

previously, before she had ever heard of Miguel Saumarez, and when

Billy was still an undergraduate. She was a widow now, and not

well-to-do; and Mr. Woods's first thought on seeing her was that a man

was a fool to write verses, and that she looked like just the sort of

woman to preserve them.



His second was that he had verged on imbecility when he fancied he

admired that slender, dark-haired type. A woman's hair ought to be an

enormous coronal of sunlight; a woman ought to have very large, candid

eyes of a colour between that of sapphires and that of the spring

heavens, only infinitely more beautiful than either; and all

petticoated persons differing from this description were manifestly

quite unworthy of any serious consideration.



So his eyes turned to Margaret, who had no eyes for him. She had

forgotten his existence, with an utterness that verged on ostentation;

and if it had been any one else Billy would have surmised she was in a

temper. But that angel in a temper!--nonsense! And, oh, what eyes she

had! and what lashes! and what hair!--and altogether, how adorable she

was, and what a wonder the admiring gods hadn't snatched her up to

Olympus long ago!



Thus far Mr. Woods.



But if Miss Hugonin was somewhat taciturn, her counsellors in divers

schemes for benefiting the universe were in opulent vein. Billy heard

them silently.



"I have spent the entire morning by the lake," Mr. Kennaston informed



After luncheon Billy had a quiet half-hour with the Colonel in the

smoking-room.



Said Billy, between puffs of a cigar:



"Peggy's changed a bit."



The Colonel grunted. Perhaps he dared not trust to words.



"Seems to have made some new friends."



A more vigorous grunt.



"Cultured lot, they seem?" said Mr. Woods. "Anxious to do good in the

world, too--philanthropic set, eh?"



A snort this time.



"Eh?" said Mr. Woods. There was dawning suspicion in his tone.



The Colonel looked about him. "My boy," said he, "you thank your stars

you didn't get that money; and, depend upon it, there never was a

gold-ship yet that wasn't followed."



"Pirates?" Billy Woods suggested, helpfully.



"Pirates are human beings," said Colonel Hugonin, with dignity.

"Sharks, my boy; sharks!"







VIII



That evening, after proper deliberation, "Célestine," Miss Hugonin

commanded, "get out that little yellow dress with the little red

bandanna handkerchiefs on it; and for heaven's sake, stop pulling

my hair out by the roots, unless you want a _raving_ maniac on your

hands, Célestine!"



Whereby she had landed me in a quandary. For how, pray, is it possible

for me, a simple-minded male, fittingly to depict for you the clothes

of Margaret?--the innumerable vanities, the quaint devices, the

pleasing conceits with which she delighted to enhance her comeliness?

The thing is beyond me. Let us keep discreetly out of her wardrobe,

you and I.



Otherwise, I should have to prattle of an infinity of mysteries--of

her scarfs, feathers, laces, gloves, girdles, knots, hats, shoes,

fans, and slippers--of her embroideries, rings, pins, pendants,

ribbons, spangles, bracelets, and chains--in fine, there would be no

end to the list of gewgaws that went to make Margaret Hugonin even

more adorable than Nature had fashioned her. For when you come to

think of it, it takes the craft and skill and life-work of a thousand

men to dress one girl properly; and in Margaret's case, I protest that

every one of them, could he have beheld the result of their united

nobly and poetically and considerately, and altogether there was

absolutely no excuse for her being in a temper. Still, she was.



The moon, however, considered the affair as arranged.



For she had been no whit more resolute in her refusal, you see, than

becomes any self-respecting maid. In fact, she had not refused him;

and the experienced moon had seen the hopes of many a wooer thrive,

chameleon-like, on answers far less encouraging than that which

Margaret had given Felix Kennaston.



Margaret was very fond of him. All women like a man who can do a

picturesque thing without bothering to consider whether or not he be

making himself ridiculous; and more than once in thinking of him she

had wondered if--perhaps--possibly--some day--? And always these vague

flights of fancy had ended at this precise point--incinerated, if you

will grant me the simile, by the sudden flaming of her cheeks.



The thing is common enough. You may remember that Romeo was not the

only gentleman that Juliet noticed at her début: there was the young

Petruchio; and the son and heir of old Tiberio; and I do not question

that she had a kind glance or so for County Paris. Beyond doubt, there

were many with whom my lady had danced; with whom she had laughed a

little; with whom she had exchanged a few perfectly affable words and

looks--when of a sudden her heart speaks: "Who's he that would not

dance? If he be married, my grave is like to prove my marriage-bed."

In any event, Paris and Petruchio and Tiberio's young hopeful can go

hang; Romeo has come.



Romeo is seldom the first. Pray you, what was there to prevent Juliet

from admiring So-and-so's dancing? or from observing that Signor

Such-an-one had remarkably expressive eyes? or from thinking of Tybalt

as a dear, reckless fellow whom it was the duty of some good woman to

rescue from perdition? If no one blames the young Montague for sending

Rosaline to the right-about--Rosaline for whom he was weeping and

rhyming an hour before--why, pray, should not Signorina Capulet have

had a few previous _affaires du coeur_? Depend upon it, she had; for



Mr. Woods's manner was a thought strange. He stammered a little in

speaking; he laughed unnecessarily; and Margaret could see that his

hands trembled. Taking him all in all, you would have sworn he was

repressing some vital emotion. But he did not seem unhappy--no, not

exactly unhappy. He was with Margaret, you see.



"Oh, you beauty!" his meditations ran.



He had some excuse. In the soft, rosy twilight of the room--the study

at Selwoode is panelled in very dark oak, and the doors and windows

are screened with crimson hangings--her parti-coloured red-and-yellow

gown might have been a scrap of afterglow left over from an unusually

fine sunset. In a word, Miss Hugonin was a very quaint and colourful

and delectable figure as she came a little further into the room. Her

eyes shone like blue stars, and her hair shone--there must be pounds

of it, Billy thought--and her very shoulders, plump, flawless,

ineffable, shone with the glow of an errant cloud-tatter that is just

past the track of dawn, and is therefore neither pink nor white, but

manages somehow to combine the best points of both colours.



"Ah, indeed?" said Miss Hugonin. Her tone imparted a surprising degree

of chilliness to this simple remark.



"No," she went on, very formally, "this is not a private room; you owe

me no apology for being here. Indeed, I am rather obliged to you, Mr.

Woods, for none of us knew of these secret drawers. Here is the key to

the central compartment, if you will be kind enough to point out the

other one. Dear, dear!" Margaret concluded, languidly, "all this is

quite like a third-rate melodrama. I haven't the least doubt you will

discover a will in there in your favour, and be reinstated as the

long-lost heir and all that sort of thing. How tiresome that will be

for me, though."



She was in a mood to be cruel to-night. She held out the keys to

him, in a disinterested fashion, and dropped them daintily into his

outstretched palm, just as she might have given a coin to an unusually

grimy mendicant. But the tips of her fingers grazed his hand.

have thought of this particular one after his death. And it isn't

quite the same will as the other; it leaves you practically

everything, but it doesn't appoint any trustees, as the other did,

because this will was drawn up after you were of age. Moreover, it

contains these four bequests to colleges, to establish a Woods chair

of ethnology, which the other will didn't provide for. Of course, it

would have been simpler merely to add a codicil to the first will,

but Uncle Fred was always very methodical. I--I think he was probably

going through the desk the night he died, destroying various papers.

He must have taken the other will out to destroy it just--just before

he died. Perhaps--perhaps--" Billy paused for a little and then

laughed, unmirthfully. "It scarcely matters," said he. "Here is the

will. It is undoubtedly genuine and undoubtedly the last he made.

You'll have to have it probated, Peggy, and settle with the colleges.

It--it won't make much of a hole in the Woods millions."



There was a half-humorous bitterness in his voice that Margaret noted

silently. So (she thought) he had hoped for a moment that at the last

Frederick R. Woods had relented toward him. It grieved her, in a dull

fashion, to see him so mercenary. It grieved her--though she would

have denied it emphatically--to see him so disappointed. Since he

wanted the money so much, she would have liked for him to have had it,

worthless as he was, for the sake of the boy he had been.



"Thank you," she said, coldly, as she took the paper; "I will give it

to my father. He will do what is necessary. Good-night, Mr. Woods."



Then she locked up the desk in a businesslike fashion and turned to

him, and held out her hand.



"Good-night, Billy," said this perfectly inconsistent young woman.

"For a moment I thought Uncle Fred had altered his will in your

favour. I almost wish he had."



Billy smiled a little.



"That would never have done," he said, gravely, as he shook

hands; "you forget what a sordid, and heartless, and generally

could stand it no longer. He got up and dressed, in sheer desperation,

and went for a walk in the gardens.



The day was clear as a new-minted coin. It was not yet wholly aired,

not wholly free from the damp savour of night, but low in the east the

sun was taking heart. A mile-long shadow footed it with Billy Woods

in his pacings through the amber-chequered gardens. Actaeon-like, he

surprised the world at its toilet, and its fleeting grace somewhat

fortified his spirits.



But his thoughts pestered him like gnats. The things he said to the

roses it is not necessary to set down.







XV



After a vituperative half-hour or so Mr. Woods was hungry. He came

back toward Selwoode; and upon the terrace in front of the house he

found Kathleen Saumarez.



During the warm weather, one corner of the terrace had been converted,

by means of gay red-and-white awnings, into a sort of living-room.

There were chairs, tables, sofa-cushions, bowls of roses, and any

number of bright-coloured rugs. Altogether, it was a cosy place,

and the glowing hues of its furnishings were very becoming to Mrs.

Saumarez, who sat there writing industriously.



It was a thought embarrassing. They had avoided one another

yesterday--rather obviously--both striving to put off a necessarily

awkward meeting. Now it had come. And now, somehow, their eyes met for

a moment, and they laughed frankly, and the awkwardness was gone.



"Kathleen," said Mr. Woods, with conviction, "you're a dear."



"You broke my heart," said she, demurely, "but I'm going to forgive

you."



Mrs. Saumarez was not striving to be clever now. And, heavens (thought

Billy), how much nicer she was like this! It wasn't the same woman:

her thin cheeks flushed arbutus-like, and her rather metallic voice

was grown low and gentle. Billy brought memories with him, you see;

and for the moment, she was Kathleen Eppes again--Kathleen Eppes in

the first flush of youth, eager, trustful, and joyous-hearted, as he

had known her long ago. Since then, the poor woman had eaten of the

bread of dependence and had found it salt enough; she had paid for it

   Oh, where have you been, charming Billy?"



And Billy's baritone answered her:



  "I've been to seek a wife--"



and broke off in a groan.



"Good Lord!" said Mr. Woods.



It was a ludicrous business, if you will. Indeed, it was vastly

humorous--was it not?--this woman's thinking a man's love might by any

chance endure through six whole years. But their love endures, you

see; and the silly creatures have a superstition among them that love

is a sacred thing, stronger than time, victorious over death itself.

Let us laugh, then, at Kathleen Saumarez--those of us who have learned

that love is only a tinkling cymbal and faith a sounding brass and

fidelity an obsolete affectation: but for my part, I honour and

think better of the woman who through all her struggles with the

world--through all those sordid, grim, merciless, secret battles where

the vanquished may not even cry for succour--I honour her, I say, for

that she had yet cherished the memory of that first love which is the

best and purest and most unselfish and most excellent thing in life.







XVI



Breakfast Margaret enjoyed hugely. I regret to confess that the fact

that every one of her guests was more or less miserable moved this

hard-hearted young woman to untimely and excessive mirth. Only Mrs.

Saumarez puzzled her, for she could think of no reason for that lady's

manifest agitation when Kathleen eventually joined the others.



But for the rest, the hopeless glances that Hugh Van Orden cast toward

her caused Adèle to flush, and Mrs. Haggage to become despondent and

speechless and astonishingly rigid; and Petheridge Jukesbury's vaguely

apologetic attitude toward the world struck Miss Hugonin as infinitely

diverting. Kennaston she pitied a little; but his bearing toward

her ranged ludicrously from that of proprietorship to that of

supplication, and, moreover, she was furious with him for having

hinted at various times that Billy was a fortune-hunter.



Margaret was quite confident by this that she had never believed

him--"not really, you know"--having argued the point out at some

you'd just lost a fortune instead of inheriting one! Wish you joy of

it, Billy. I ain't saying, you know, we shan't miss it, my daughter

and I--no, begad, for it's a nice pot of money, and we'll miss it

damnably. But since somebody had to have it, I'd much rather it was

you, my boy, than a set of infernal, hypocritical, philanthropic

sharks, and I'm damn' glad Frederick has done the square thing by

you--yes, begad!"



The old gentleman was standing beside Mr. Woods in the vestibule of

Selwoode, some distance from the other members of the house-party,

and was speaking in confidence. He was sincere; I don't say that

the thought of facing the world at sixty-five with practically

no resources save his half-pay--I think I have told you that the

Colonel's diversions had drunk up his wife's fortune and his own like

a glass of water--I don't say that this thought moved him to hilarity.

Over it, indeed, he pulled a frankly grave face.



But he cared a deal for Billy; and even now there was balm--soothing,

priceless balm--to be had of the reflection that this change in

his prospects affected materially the prospects of those cultured,

broad-minded, philanthropic persons who had aforetime set his daughter

to requiring of him a perusal of Herbert Spencer.



Billy was pretty well aware how monetary matters stood with the old

wastrel; and the sincerity of the man affected him far more than the

most disinterested sentiments would have done. Mr. Woods accordingly

shook hands, with entirely unnecessary violence.



"You're a trump, that's what you are!" he declared; "oh, yes, you are,

Colonel! You're an incorrigible, incurable old ace of trumps--the

very best there is in the pack--and it's entirely useless for you to

attempt to conceal it."



"Gad----!" said the Colonel.



"And don't you worry about that will," Mr. Woods advised. "I--I can't

explain things just now, but it's all right. You just wait--just wait

till I've seen Peggy," Billy urged, in desperation, "and I'll explain

everything."



"By gad----!" said the Colonel. But Mr. Woods was half-way out of the

vestibule.




Margaret was hatless--and the glory of the eminently sensible spring

sun appeared to centre in her hair--and violet-clad; and the gown,

like most of her gowns, was all tiny tucks and frills and flounces,

diapered with semi-transparencies--unsubstantial, foam-like, mere

violet froth. As she came starry-eyed through the gardens, the

impudent wind trifling with her hair, I protest she might have been

some lady of Oberon's court stolen out of Elfland to bedevil us poor

mortals, with only a moonbeam for the changeable heart of her, and

for raiment a violet shadow spirited from the under side of some big,

fleecy cloud.



They came presently through a trim, yew-hedged walkway to a

summer-house covered with vines, into which Margaret peeped and

declined to enter, on the ground that it was entirely too chilly

and gloomy and _exactly_ like a mausoleum; but nearby they found a

semi-circular marble bench about which a group of elm-trees made a

pleasant shadow splashed at just the proper intervals with sunlight.



On this Margaret seated herself; and then pensively moved to the other

end of the bench, because a slanting sunbeam fell there. Since it

was absolutely necessary to blast Mr. Kennaston's dearest hopes,

she thoughtfully endeavoured to distract his attention from his own

miseries--as far as might be possible--by showing him how exactly like

an aureole her hair was in the sunlight. Margaret always had a kind

heart.



Kennaston stood before her, smiling a little. He was the sort of man

to appreciate the manoeuver.



"My lady," he asked, very softly, "haven't you any good news for me on

this wonderful morning?"



"Excellent news," Margaret assented, with a cheerfulness that was

not utterly free from trepidation. "I've decided not to marry you,

beautiful, and I trust you're properly grateful. You see, you're very

nice, of course, but I'm going to marry somebody else, and bigamy is

a  crime, you know; and, anyhow, I'm only a pauper, and you'd never be

able to put up with my temper--now, beautiful, I'm quite sure you

couldn't, so there's not a bit of use in arguing it. Some day you'd

end by strangling me, which would be horribly disagreeable for me, and

the gods. But there must need be an end some day. And meanwhile, you

cannot blame us if we cringe to the Eagle that is master of the world.

It is human nature to cringe to its master; and while human nature

is not always an admirable thing, it is, I believe, rather widely

distributed."



Margaret did not return the smile. Like any sensible woman, she never

tolerated opinions that differed from her own.



So she waved his preachment aside. "You're trying to be eloquent," was

her observation, "and you've only succeeded in being very silly and

tiresome. Go away, beautiful. You make me awfully tired, and I don't

care for you in the least. Go and talk to Kathleen. I shall be

here--on this very spot," Margaret added, with commendable precision

and an unaccountable increase of colour, "if--if any one should happen

to ask."



Then Kennaston rose and laughed merrily.



"You are quite delicious," he commented. "It will always be a

grief and a puzzle to me that I am not mad for love of you. It is

unreasonable of me," he complained, sadly, and shook his head, "but I

prefer Kathleen. And I am quite certain that somebody will ask where

you are. I shall describe to him the exact spot--"



Mr. Kennaston paused, with a slight air of apology.



"If I were you," he suggested, pleasantly, "I would move a

little--just a little--to the left. That will enable you to obtain to

a fuller extent the benefit of the sunbeam which is falling--quite

by accident, of course--upon your hair. You are perfectly right,

Margaret, in selecting that hedge as a background. Its sombre green

sets you off to perfection."



He went away chuckling. He felt that Margaret must think him a devil

of a fellow.



She didn't, though.



"The _idea_ of his suspecting me of such unconscionable vanity!" she

said, properly offended. Then, "Anyhow, a man has no business to know

about such things," she continued, with rising indignation. "I believe

Felix Kennaston is as good a judge of chiffons as any woman. That's

effeminate, I think, and catty and absurd. I don't believe I ever

But Mr. Woods had risen with a strange celerity and was about to leave

the summer-house.



Margaret pouted. Mrs. Saumarez and Mr. Kennaston were seated not

twenty feet from the summer-house, on the bench which Miss Hugonin had

just left. And when that unprincipled young woman finally rose to her

feet, it must be confessed that it was with a toss of the head and

with the reflection that while to listen wasn't honourable, it would

at least be very amusing. I grieve to admit it, but with Billy's

scruples she hadn't the slightest sympathy.



Then Kennaston cried, suddenly: "Why, you're mad, Kathleen! Woods

wants to marry _you!_ Why, he's heels over head in love with Miss

Hugonin!"



Miss Hugonin turned to Mr. Woods with a little intake of the breath.



No, I shall not attempt to tell you what Billy saw in her countenance.

Timanthes-like, I drape before it the vines of the summer-house. For

a brief space I think we had best betake ourselves outside,

leaving Margaret in a very pitiable state of anger, and shame, and

humiliation, and heartbreak--leaving poor Billy with a heart that

ached, seeing the horror of him in her face.







XXIII



Mrs. Saumarez laughed bitterly.



"No," she said, "Billy cared for me, you know, a long time ago. And

this morning he told me he still cared. Billy doesn't pretend to be

a clever man, you see, and so he can afford to practice some of the

brute virtues, such as constancy and fidelity."



There was a challenging flame in her eyes, but Kennaston let the stab

pass unnoticed. To do him justice, he was thinking less of himself,

just now, than of how this news would affect Margaret; and his face

was very grave and strangely tender, for in his own fashion he loved

Margaret.



"It's nasty, very nasty," he said, at length, in a voice that was

puzzled. "Yet I could have sworn yesterday----" Kennaston paused and

laughed lightly. "She was an heiress yesterday, and to-day she is

nobody. And Mr. Woods, being wealthy, can afford to gratify the

that one of your not knowing about that last will?"



"The farce!" Billy stammered. "You--why, you saw me when I found it!"



"Ah, yes, I saw you when you pretended to find it. I saw you when you

pretended to unlock that centre place. But now, of course, I know it

never was locked. I'm very careless about locking things, Mr. Woods.

Ah, yes, that gave you a beautiful opportunity, didn't it? So, when

you were rummaging through my desk--without my permission, by the way,

but that's a detail--you found both wills and concocted your little

comedy? That was very clever. Oh, you think you're awfully smooth,

don't you, Billy Woods? But if you had been a bit more daring, don't

you see, you could have suppressed the last one and taken the money

without being encumbered by me? That was rather clumsy of you, wasn't

it?" Suave, gentle, sweet as honey was the speech of Margaret as she

lifted her face to his, but her eyes were tragedies.



"Ah!" said Billy. "Ah--yes--you think--that." He was very careful in

articulating his words, was Billy, and afterward he nodded his head

gravely. The universe had somehow suffered an airy dissolution like

that of Prospero's masque--Selwoode and its gardens, the great globe

itself, "the cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn

temples" were all as vanished wraiths. There was only Peggy left--

Peggy with that unimaginable misery in her eyes that he must drive

away somehow. If that was what she thought, there was no way for him

to prove it wasn't so.



"Why, dear me, Mr. Woods," she retorted, carelessly, "what else could

I think?"



Here Mr. Woods blundered.



"Ah, think what you will, Peggy!" he cried, his big voice cracking and

sobbing and resonant with pain. "Ah, my dear, think what you will, but

don't grieve for it, Peggy! Why, if I'm all you say I am, that's no

reason you should suffer for it! Ah, don't, Peggy! In God's name,

don't! I can't bear it, dear," he pleaded with her, helplessly.



Billy was suffering, too. But her sorrow was the chief of his, and

parochial, restrained for the most part by a lively apprehension of

the law. But now the spell of the Eagle was strong upon him.



"Lady," said Mr. Flinks, twisting in his grimy hand the bill she had

given him--and there, too, the Eagle flaunted in his vigour and

heartened him, "lady, that ain't much for you to give. Can't you do a

little better than that by a poor workingman, lady?"



A very unpleasant-looking person, Mr. Cock-eye Flinks. Oh, a

peculiarly unpleasant-looking person to be a model son and a loving

husband and a tender father. Margaret was filled with a vague alarm.



But she was brave, was Margaret. "No," said she, very decidedly, "I

shan't give you another cent. So you climb right over that wall and go

straight back where you belong."



The methods of Mr. Flinks, I regret to say, were somewhat more crude

than those of Mesdames Haggage and Saumarez and Messieurs Kennaston

and Jukesbury.



"Cheese it!" said Mr. Flinks, and flung away his staff and drew very

near to her. "Gimme that money, do you hear!"



"Don't you dare touch me!" she panted; "ah, don't you _dare_!"



"Aw, hell!" said Mr. Flinks, disgustedly, and his dirty hands were

upon her, and his foul breath reeked in her face.



In her hour of need Margaret's heart spoke.



"Billy!" she wailed; "oh, Billy, _Billy_!"



       *       *       *       *       *



He came to her--just as he would have scaled Heaven to come to her,

just as he would have come to her in the nethermost pit of Hell if she

had called. Ah, yes, Billy Woods came to her now in her peril, and

I don't think that Mr. Flinks particularly relished the look upon

Billy's face as he ran through the gardens, for Billy was furiously

moved.



Cock-eye Flinks glanced back at the wall behind him. Ten feet high,

and the fellow ain't far off. Cock-eye Flinks caught up his staff, and



Jukesbury, too, smiled. "The man is bringing it downstairs now," he

answered, quietly.



"Because," Billy went on, fretfully, "I don't propose to miss the

Trojan war. The princes orgulous with high blood chafed, you know, are

all going to be there, and I don't propose to miss it."



Behind his fat back, Petheridge Jukesbury waved a cautioning hand at

Margaret, who had risen from her chair.



"But it is very absurd," Billy murmured, in the mere ghost of a voice,

"because men don't propose by mistake except in farces. Somebody told

me that, but I can't remember who, because I am a misogynist. That is

a Greek word, and I would explain it to Peggy, if she would only give

me a chance, but she can't because she has those seventeen hundred

and fifty thousand children to look after. There must be some way to

explain to her, though, because where there's a will there is always

a way, and there were three wills. Uncle Fred should not have left so

many wills--who would have thought the old man had so much ink in him?

But I will be a very great painter, Uncle Fred, and make her sorry for

the way she has treated me, and _then_ Kathleen will understand I was

talking about Peggy."



His voice died away, and Margaret sat with wide eyes listening for it

again. Would the doctor never come!



Billy was smiling and picking at the sheets.



"But Peggy is so rich," the faint voice presently complained--"so

beastly rich! There is gold in her hair, and if you will look very

closely you will see that her lashes were pure gold until she dipped

them in the ink-pot. Besides, she expects me to sit up and beg for

lumps of sugar, and I _never_ take sugar in my coffee. And Peggy

doesn't drink coffee at all, so I think it is very unfair, especially

as Teddy Anstruther drinks like a fish and she is going to marry him.

Peggy, why won't you marry me? You know I've always loved you, Peggy,

and now I can tell you so because Uncle Fred has left me all his

obsolete now because he "wallows naked in the pathetic" and was

frequently guilty of a very vulgar sort of humour that actually made

people laugh, which, as we now know, is not the purpose of humour--a

novelist who incessantly "caricatured Nature" and by these inartistic

and underhand methods created characters that are more real to us than

the folk we jostle in the street and (God knows!) far more vital and

worthy of attention than the folk who "cannot read Dickens"--you will

find, I say, a note of an idea which he never afterward developed,

running to this effect: "Full length portrait of his lordship,

surrounded by worshippers. Sensible men enough, agreeable men enough,

independent men enough in a certain way; but the moment they begin

to circle round my lord, and to shine with a borrowed light from

his lordship, heaven and earth, how mean and subservient! What a

competition and outbidding of each other in servility!"



And this, with "my lord" and "his lordship" erased to make way for the

word "money," is my moral. The folk who have just left Selwoode were

honest enough as honesty goes nowadays; kindly as any of us dare

be who have our own way to make among very stalwart and determined

rivals; generous as any man may venture to be in a world where

the first of every month finds the butcher and the baker and the

candlestick-maker rapping at the door with their little bills: but

they cringed to money. It was very wrong of them, my dear lady, and in

extenuation I can only plead that they could no more help cringing to

money than you or I can help it.



This is very crude and very cynical, but unfortunately it is true.



We always cringe to money; which is humiliating. And the sun always

rises at an hour when sensible people are abed and have not the least

need for its services; which is foolish. And what you and I, my dear

madam, are to do about rectifying either one of these vexatious

circumstances, I am sure I don't know.



We can, at least, be honest. Let us, then, console ourselves at will

affair of the dim yester-years--a mere blurred memory, faint and vague

as a Druidical tenet or a Merovingian squabble.



But the time passed for all that; and eventually--it was just before

dusk--she came, with Martin Jeal's permission, into the room where

Billy was. And beside the big open fireplace, where a wood fire

chattered companionably, sat a very pallid Billy, a rather thin Billy,

with a great many bandages about his head.



You may depend upon it, Margaret was not looking her worst that

afternoon. By actual count, Célestine had done her hair six times

before reaching an acceptable result.



And, "Yes, Célestine, you may get out that pale yellow dress. No,

beautiful, the one with the black satin stripes on the bodice--because

I don't want my hair cast completely in the shade, do I? Now, let me

see--black feather, gloves, large pompadour, _and_ a sweet smile. No,

I don't want a fan--that's a Lydia Languish trade-mark. And _two_ silk

skirts rustling like the deadest leaves imaginable. Yes, I think that

will do. And if you can't hook up my dress without pecking and pecking

at me like that, I'll probably go stark, _staring_ crazy, Célestine,

and then you'll be sorry. No, it isn't a bit tight--are you perfectly

certain there's no powder behind my ears, Célestine? Now, _please_ try

to fasten the collar without pulling all my hair down. Ye-es, I think

that will do, Célestine. Well, it's very nice of you to say so, but I

don't believe I much fancy myself in yellow, after all."



Equipped and armed for conquest, then, she came into the room with a

very tolerable affectation of unconcern. Altogether, it was a quite

effective entrance.



"I've been for a little drive, Billy," she mendaciously informed him.

"That's how you happen to have the opportunity of seeing me in all my

nice new store-clothes. Aren't you pleased, Billy? No, don't you dare

get up!" Margaret stood across the room, peeling off her gloves and

regarding him on the whole with disapproval. "They've been starving

you," she pensively reflected. "As soon as that Jeal person goes away,

I shall have six little beefsteaks cooked and see to it personally

