

DETAILED CONTENTS.





CHAP. FIRST.



The End of a much-applauded Speech.--The Presentation of Dr. Samuel

Ferguson.--Excelsior.--Full-length Portrait of the Doctor.--A Fatalist

convinced.--A Dinner at the Travellers’ Club.--Several Toasts for the

Occasion



CHAP. SECOND.



The Article in the Daily Telegraph.--War between the Scientific

Journals.--Mr. Petermann backs his Friend Dr. Ferguson.--Reply of the

Savant Koner.--Bets made.--Sundry Propositions offered to the Doctor



CHAP. THIRD.



The Doctor’s Friend.--The Origin of their Friendship.--Dick Kennedy at

London.--An unexpected but not very consoling Proposal.--A Proverb by

no means cheering.--A few Names from the African Martyrology.--The

Advantages of a Balloon.--Dr. Ferguson’s Secret



CHAP. FOURTH.



African Explorations.--Barth, Richardson, Overweg, Werne, Brun-Rollet,

Penney, Andrea, Debono, Miani, Guillaume Lejean, Brace, Krapf and

Rebmann, Maizan, Roscher, Burton and Speke



CHAP. FIFTH.



Kennedy’s Dreams.--Articles and Pronouns in the Plural.--Dick’s

Insinuations.--A Promenade over the Map of Africa.--What is contained

between two Points of the Compass.--Expeditions now on foot.--Speke and

Grant.--Krapf, De Decken, and De Heuglin



CHAP. SIXTH.



A Servant--match him!--He can see the Satellites of Jupiter.--Dick

and Joe hard at it.--Doubt and Faith.--The Weighing Ceremony.--Joe and

Wellington.--He gets a Half-crown



CHAP. SEVENTH.



Geometrical Details.--Calculation of the Capacity of the Balloon.--The

Double Receptacle.--The Covering.--The Car.--The Mysterious

Apparatus.--The Provisions and Stores.--The Final Summing up



CHAP. EIGHTH.



Joe’s Importance.--The Commander of the Resolute.--Kennedy’s

Arsenal.--Mutual Amenities.--The Farewell Dinner.--Departure on the

21st of February.--The Doctor’s Scientific

Sessions.--Duveyrier.--Livingstone.--Details of the Aerial

Voyage.--Kennedy silenced



CHAP. NINTH.



They double the Cape.--The Forecastle.--A Course of Cosmography by

Professor Joe.--Concerning the Method of guiding Balloons.--How to seek

out Atmospheric Currents.--Eureka



CHAP. TENTH.



Former Experiments.--The Doctor’s Five Receptacles.--The Gas

Cylinder.--The Calorifere.--The System of Manoeuvring.--Success certain



CHAP. ELEVENTH.



The Arrival at Zanzibar.--The English Consul.--Ill-will of the

Inhabitants.--The Island of Koumbeni.--The Rain-Makers.--Inflation of

the Balloon.--Departure on the 18th of April.--The last Good-by.--The

Victoria



CHAP. TWELFTH.



Crossing the Strait.--The Mrima.--Dick’s Remark and Joe’s

Proposition.--A Recipe for Coffee-making.--The Uzaramo.--The Unfortunate




“The labors of these hardy pioneers of science are now about to be

knit together by the daring project of Dr. Samuel Ferguson, whose

fine explorations our readers have frequently had the opportunity of

appreciating.



“This intrepid discoverer proposes to traverse all Africa from east to

west IN A BALLOON. If we are well informed, the point of departure

for this surprising journey is to be the island of Zanzibar, upon

the eastern coast. As for the point of arrival, it is reserved for

Providence alone to designate.



“The proposal for this scientific undertaking was officially made,

yesterday, at the rooms of the Royal Geographical Society, and the sum

of twenty-five hundred pounds was voted to defray the expenses of the

enterprise.



“We shall keep our readers informed as to the progress of this

enterprise, which has no precedent in the annals of exploration.”



As may be supposed, the foregoing article had an enormous echo among

scientific people. At first, it stirred up a storm of incredulity; Dr.

Ferguson passed for a purely chimerical personage of the Barnum stamp,

who, after having gone through the United States, proposed to “do” the

British Isles.



A humorous reply appeared in the February number of the Bulletins de la

Societe Geographique of Geneva, which very wittily showed up the Royal

Society of London and their phenomenal sturgeon.



But Herr Petermann, in his Mittheilungen, published at Gotha, reduced

the Geneva journal to the most absolute silence. Herr Petermann knew

Dr. Ferguson personally, and guaranteed the intrepidity of his dauntless

friend.



Besides, all manner of doubt was quickly put out of the question:

preparations for the trip were set on foot at London; the factories of

Lyons received a heavy order for the silk required for the body of the

balloon; and, finally, the British Government placed the transport-ship

Resolute, Captain Bennett, at the disposal of the expedition.



At once, upon word of all this, a thousand encouragements were offered,

and felicitations came pouring in from all quarters. The details of the

undertaking were published in full in the bulletins of the Geographical

The problem, therefore, was how to link the explorations of Burton

and Speke with those of Dr. Barth, since to do so was to undertake to

traverse an extent of more than twelve degrees of territory.







CHAPTER FIFTH.



Kennedy’s Dreams.--Articles and Pronouns in the Plural.--Dick’s

Insinuations.--A Promenade over the Map of Africa.--What is contained

between two Points of the Compass.--Expeditions now on foot.--Speke and

Grant.--Krapf, De Decken, and De Heuglin.



Dr. Ferguson energetically pushed the preparations for his departure,

and in person superintended the construction of his balloon, with

certain modifications; in regard to which he observed the most absolute

silence. For a long time past he had been applying himself to the study

of the Arab language and the various Mandingoe idioms, and, thanks to

his talents as a polyglot, he had made rapid progress.



In the mean while his friend, the sportsman, never let him out of his

sight--afraid, no doubt, that the doctor might take his departure,

without saying a word to anybody. On this subject, he regaled him with

the most persuasive arguments, which, however, did NOT persuade Samuel

Ferguson, and wasted his breath in pathetic entreaties, by which the

latter seemed to be but slightly moved. In fine, Dick felt that the

doctor was slipping through his fingers.



The poor Scot was really to be pitied. He could not look upon the azure

vault without a sombre terror: when asleep, he felt oscillations that

made his head reel; and every night he had visions of being swung aloft

at immeasurable heights.



We must add that, during these fearful nightmares, he once or twice fell

out of bed. His first care then was to show Ferguson a severe contusion

that he had received on the cranium. “And yet,” he would add, with

warmth, “that was at the height of only three feet--not an inch

more--and such a bump as this! Only think, then!”



This insinuation, full of sad meaning as it was, did not seem to touch

the doctor’s heart.



“We’ll not fall,” was his invariable reply.



“But, still, suppose that we WERE to fall!”


a light but strong silk ladder fifty feet in length.



He at the same time carefully weighed his stores of provision, which

consisted of tea, coffee, biscuit, salted meat, and pemmican, a

preparation which comprises many nutritive elements in a small space.

Besides a sufficient stock of pure brandy, he arranged two water-tanks,

each of which contained twenty-two gallons.



The consumption of these articles would necessarily, little by little,

diminish the weight to be sustained, for it must be remembered that

the equilibrium of a balloon floating in the atmosphere is extremely

sensitive. The loss of an almost insignificant weight suffices to

produce a very noticeable displacement.



Nor did the doctor forget an awning to shelter the car, nor the

coverings and blankets that were to be the bedding of the journey, nor

some fowling pieces and rifles, with their requisite supply of powder

and ball.



Here is the summing up of his various items, and their weight, as he

computed it:



       Ferguson...........................  135 pounds.

       Kennedy............................  153   ”

        Joe................................  120   ”

        Weight of the outside balloon......  650   ”

        Weight of the second balloon.......  510   ”

        Car and network....................  280   ”

        Anchors, instruments, awnings,

         and sundry utensils, guns,

         coverings, etc...................  190   ”

        Meat, pemmican, biscuits, tea,

         coffee, brandy...................  386   ”

        Water..............................  400   ”

        Apparatus..........................  700   ”

        Weight of the hydrogen.............  276   ”

cylinder. By this excess of heat it obtains a larger distention, and

inflates the balloon more. The latter, then, ascends in proportion as I

heat the hydrogen.



“The descent, of course, is effected by lowering the heat of the

cylinder, and letting the temperature abate. The ascent would

be, usually, more rapid than the descent; but that is a fortunate

circumstance, since it is of no importance to me to descend rapidly,

while, on the other hand, it is by a very rapid ascent that I avoid

obstacles. The real danger lurks below, and not above.



“Besides, as I have said, I have a certain quantity of ballast, which

will enable me to ascend more rapidly still, when necessary. My valve,

at the top of the balloon, is nothing more nor less than a safety-valve.

The balloon always retains the same quantity of hydrogen, and the

variations of temperature that I produce in the midst of this shut-up

gas are, of themselves, sufficient to provide for all these ascending

and descending movements.



“Now, gentlemen, as a practical detail, let me add this:



“The combustion of the hydrogen and of the oxygen at the point of the

cylinder produces solely the vapor or steam of water. I have, therefore,

provided the lower part of the cylindrical iron box with a scape-pipe,

with a valve operating by means of a pressure of two atmospheres;

consequently, so soon as this amount of pressure is attained, the steam

escapes of itself.



“Here are the exact figures: 25 gallons of water, separated into its

constituent elements, yield 200 pounds of oxygen and 25 pounds of

hydrogen. This represents, at atmospheric tension, 1,800 cubic feet of

the former and 3,780 cubic feet of the latter, or 5,670 cubic feet,

in all, of the mixture. Hence, the stopcock of my cylinder, when fully

open, expends 27 cubic feet per hour, with a flame at least six times

as strong as that of the large lamps used for lighting streets. On an

average, then, and in order to keep myself at a very moderate elevation,

I should not burn more than nine cubic feet per hour, so that my




Kennedy remarked that the route tended toward the south; but this

direction was satisfactory to the doctor, who desired to reconnoitre the

tracks of his predecessors as much as possible. It was agreed that the

night should be divided into three watches, so that each of the party

should take his turn in watching over the safety of the rest. The doctor

took the watch commencing at nine o’clock; Kennedy, the one commencing

at midnight; and Joe, the three o’clock morning watch.



So Kennedy and Joe, well wrapped in their blankets, stretched themselves

at full length under the awning, and slept quietly; while Dr. Ferguson

kept on the lookout.







CHAPTER THIRTEENTH.



Change of Weather.--Kennedy has the Fever.--The Doctor’s

Medicine.--Travels on Land.--The Basin of Imenge.--Mount Rubeho.--Six

Thousand Feet Elevation.--A Halt in the Daytime.



The night was calm. However, on Saturday morning, Kennedy, as he awoke,

complained of lassitude and feverish chills. The weather was changing.

The sky, covered with clouds, seemed to be laying in supplies for a

fresh deluge. A gloomy region is that Zungomoro country, where it rains

continually, excepting, perhaps, for a couple of weeks in the month of

January.



A violent shower was not long in drenching our travellers. Below them,

the roads, intersected by “nullahs,” a sort of instantaneous torrent,

were soon rendered impracticable, entangled as they were, besides, with

thorny thickets and gigantic lianas, or creeping vines. The sulphuretted

hydrogen emanations, which Captain Burton mentions, could be distinctly

smelt.



“According to his statement, and I think he’s right,” said the doctor,

“one could readily believe that there is a corpse hidden behind every

thicket.”



“An ugly country this!” sighed Joe; “and it seems to me that Mr. Kennedy

is none the better for having passed the night in it.”



“To tell the truth, I have quite a high fever,” said the sportsman.



“There’s nothing remarkable about that, my dear Dick, for we are in one

of the most unhealthy regions in Africa; but we shall not remain here

long; so let’s be off.”




avidity. The doctor recognized the fruit of the “mbenbu”--tree which

grows in profusion, on the western part of Jihoue-la-Mkoa. Ferguson

waited for Joe with a certain feeling of impatience, for even a short

halt in this inhospitable region always inspires a degree of fear.



The water was got aboard without trouble, as the car was nearly resting

on the ground. Joe then found it easy to loosen the anchor and leaped

lightly to his place beside the doctor. The latter then replenished the

flame in the cylinder, and the balloon majestically soared into the air.



It was then about one hundred miles from Kazeh, an important

establishment in the interior of Africa, where, thanks to a

south-southeasterly current, the travellers might hope to arrive on that

same day. They were moving at the rate of fourteen miles per hour, and

the guidance of the balloon was becoming difficult, as they dared not

rise very high without extreme dilation of the gas, the country itself

being at an average height of three thousand feet. Hence, the doctor

preferred not to force the dilation, and so adroitly followed the

sinuosities of a pretty sharply-inclined plane, and swept very close

to the villages of Thembo and Tura-Wels. The latter forms part of

the Unyamwezy, a magnificent country, where the trees attain enormous

dimensions; among them the cactus, which grows to gigantic size.



About two o’clock, in magnificent weather, but under a fiery sun that

devoured the least breath of air, the balloon was floating over the town

of Kazeh, situated about three hundred and fifty miles from the coast.



“We left Zanzibar at nine o’clock in the morning,” said the doctor,

consulting his notes, “and, after two days’ passage, we have, including

our deviations, travelled nearly five hundred geographical miles.

Captains Burton and Speke took four months and a half to make the same

distance!”







CHAPTER FIFTEENTH.



Kazeh.--The Noisy Market-place.--The Appearance of the Balloon.--The

Wangaga.--The Sons of the Moon.--The Doctor’s Walk.--The Population

of the Place.--The Royal Tembe.--The Sultan’s Wives.--A Royal

Drunken-Bout.--Joe an Object of Worship.--How they Dance in the Moon.--A

Reaction.--Two Moons in one Sky.--The Instability of Divine Honors.


“Well, then,” suggested Dick, “would it not be advisable to alight?”



“On the contrary, Dick, I’d rather go up, only that I am afraid of being

carried out of my course by these counter-currents contending in the

atmosphere.”



“Have you any idea, then, of abandoning the route that we have followed

since we left the coast?”



“If I can manage to do so,” replied the doctor, “I will turn more

directly northward, by from seven to eight degrees; I shall then

endeavor to ascend toward the presumed latitudes of the sources of the

Nile; perhaps we may discover some traces of Captain Speke’s expedition

or of M. de Heuglin’s caravan. Unless I am mistaken, we are at

thirty-two degrees forty minutes east longitude, and I should like to

ascend directly north of the equator.”



“Look there!” exclaimed Kennedy, suddenly, “see those hippopotami

sliding out of the pools--those masses of blood-colored flesh--and those

crocodiles snuffing the air aloud!”



“They’re choking!” ejaculated Joe. “Ah! what a fine way to travel this

is; and how one can snap his fingers at all that vermin!--Doctor! Mr.

Kennedy! see those packs of wild animals hurrying along close together.

There are fully two hundred. Those are wolves.”



“No! Joe, not wolves, but wild dogs; a famous breed that does not

hesitate to attack the lion himself. They are the worst customers a

traveller could meet, for they would instantly tear him to pieces.”



“Well, it isn’t Joe that’ll undertake to muzzle them!” responded that

amiable youth. “After all, though, if that’s the nature of the beast, we

mustn’t be too hard on them for it!”



Silence gradually settled down under the influence of the impending

storm: the thickened air actually seemed no longer adapted to the

transmission of sound; the atmosphere appeared MUFFLED, and, like a

room hung with tapestry, lost all its sonorous reverberation. The

“rover bird” so-called, the coroneted crane, the red and blue jays,

the mocking-bird, the flycatcher, disappeared among the foliage of the

immense trees, and all nature revealed symptoms of some approaching

catastrophe.



At nine o’clock the Victoria hung motionless over Msene, an extensive

region in sight. His gaze wandered over details that might have been

thus described:



“Beneath him extended a country generally destitute of cultivation; only

here and there some ravines seemed under tillage; the surface, dotted

with peaks of medium height, grew flat as it approached the lake;

barley-fields took the place of rice-plantations, and there, too, could

be seen growing the species of plantain from which the wine of the

country is drawn, and mwani, the wild plant which supplies a substitute

for coffee. A collection of some fifty or more circular huts, covered

with a flowering thatch, constituted the capital of the Karagwah

country.”



He could easily distinguish the astonished countenances of a rather

fine-looking race of natives of yellowish-brown complexion. Women

of incredible corpulence were dawdling about through the cultivated

grounds, and the doctor greatly surprised his companions by informing

them that this rotundity, which is highly esteemed in that region, was

obtained by an obligatory diet of curdled milk.



At noon, the Victoria was in one degree forty-five minutes south

latitude, and at one o’clock the wind was driving her directly toward

the lake.



This sheet of water was christened Uyanza Victoria, or Victoria Lake, by

Captain Speke. At the place now mentioned it might measure about ninety

miles in breadth, and at its southern extremity the captain found a

group of islets, which he named the Archipelago of Bengal. He pushed his

survey as far as Muanza, on the eastern coast, where he was received

by the sultan. He made a triangulation of this part of the lake, but

he could not procure a boat, either to cross it or to visit the great

island of Ukereoue which is very populous, is governed by three sultans,

and appears to be only a promontory at low tide.



The balloon approached the lake more to the northward, to the doctor’s

great regret, for it had been his wish to determine its lower outlines.

Its shores seemed to be thickly set with brambles and thorny plants,

growing together in wild confusion, and were literally hidden,

sometimes, from the gaze, by myriads of mosquitoes of a light-brown hue.


The wind had become violent and irregular; the balloon was running

the gantlet through the air. Tossed at one moment toward the north, at

another toward the south, it could not find one steady current.



“We are moving very swiftly without advancing much,” said Kennedy,

remarking the frequent oscillations of the needle of the compass.



“The balloon is rushing at the rate of at least thirty miles an hour.

Lean over, and see how the country is gliding away beneath us!” said the

doctor.



“See! that forest looks as though it were precipitating itself upon us!”



“The forest has become a clearing!” added the other.



“And the clearing a village!” continued Joe, a moment or two later.

“Look at the faces of those astonished darkys!”



“Oh! it’s natural enough that they should be astonished,” said the

doctor. “The French peasants, when they first saw a balloon, fired

at it, thinking that it was an aerial monster. A Soudan negro may be

excused, then, for opening his eyes VERY wide!”



“Faith!” said Joe, as the Victoria skimmed closely along the ground,

at scarcely the elevation of one hundred feet, and immediately over a

village, “I’ll throw them an empty bottle, with your leave, doctor, and

if it reaches them safe and sound, they’ll worship it; if it breaks,

they’ll make talismans of the pieces.”



So saying, he flung out a bottle, which, of course, was broken into a

thousand fragments, while the negroes scampered into their round huts,

uttering shrill cries.



A little farther on, Kennedy called out: “Look at that strange tree! The

upper part is of one kind and the lower part of another!”



“Well!” said Joe, “here’s a country where the trees grow on top of each

other.”



“It’s simply the trunk of a fig-tree,” replied the doctor, “on which

there is a little vegetating earth. Some fine day, the wind left the

seed of a palm on it, and the seed has taken root and grown as though it

were on the plain ground.”



“A fine new style of gardening,” said Joe, “and I’ll import the idea

Care.--A Life of Self-Denial.--Passing a Volcano.



Dr. Ferguson darted his powerful electric jet toward various points of

space, and caused it to rest on a spot from which shouts of terror were

heard. His companions fixed their gaze eagerly on the place.



The baobab, over which the balloon was hanging almost motionless, stood

in the centre of a clearing, where, between fields of Indian-corn and

sugar-cane, were seen some fifty low, conical huts, around which swarmed

a numerous tribe.



A hundred feet below the balloon stood a large post, or stake, and at

its foot lay a human being--a young man of thirty years or more, with

long black hair, half naked, wasted and wan, bleeding, covered with

wounds, his head bowed over upon his breast, as Christ’s was, when He

hung upon the cross.



The hair, cut shorter on the top of his skull, still indicated the place

of a half-effaced tonsure.



“A missionary! a priest!” exclaimed Joe.



“Poor, unfortunate man!” said Kennedy.



“We must save him, Dick!” responded the doctor; “we must save him!”



The crowd of blacks, when they saw the balloon over their heads, like

a huge comet with a train of dazzling light, were seized with a terror

that may be readily imagined. Upon hearing their cries, the prisoner

raised his head. His eyes gleamed with sudden hope, and, without too

thoroughly comprehending what was taking place, he stretched out his

hands to his unexpected deliverers.



“He is alive!” exclaimed Ferguson. “God be praised! The savages have got

a fine scare, and we shall save him! Are you ready, friends?”



“Ready, doctor, at the word.”



“Joe, shut off the cylinder!”



The doctor’s order was executed. An almost imperceptible breath of air

impelled the balloon directly over the prisoner, at the same time that

it gently lowered with the contraction of the gas. For about ten minutes

it remained floating in the midst of luminous waves, for Ferguson

continued to flash right down upon the throng his glowing sheaf of rays,

which, here and there, marked out swift and vivid sheets of light.


But the balloon did not budge.



“Humph!” said he; “we’re not going up yet.”



“Not yet,” said the doctor. “Keep on throwing.”



Kennedy laughed. Joe now threw out some ten pounds, but the balloon

stood still.



Joe got very pale.



“Poor fellow!” said the doctor. “Mr. Kennedy, you and I weigh, unless I

am mistaken, about four hundred pounds--so that you’ll have to get rid

of at least that weight, since it was put in here to make up for us.”



“Throw away four hundred pounds!” said Joe, piteously.



“And some more with it, or we can’t rise. Come, courage, Joe!”



The brave fellow, heaving deep sighs, began at last to lighten the

balloon; but, from time to time, he would stop, and ask:



“Are you going up?”



“No, not yet,” was the invariable response.



“It moves!” said he, at last.



“Keep on!” replied the doctor.



“It’s going up; I’m sure.”



“Keep on yet,” said Kennedy.



And Joe, picking up one more block, desperately tossed it out of the

car. The balloon rose a hundred feet or so, and, aided by the cylinder,

soon passed above the surrounding summits.



“Now, Joe,” resumed the doctor, “there still remains a handsome fortune

for you; and, if we can only keep the rest of this with us until the end

of our trip, there you are--rich for the balance of your days!”



Joe made no answer, but stretched himself out luxuriously on his heap of

quartz.



“See, my dear Dick!” the doctor went on. “Just see the power of this

metal over the cleverest lad in the world! What passions, what greed,

what crimes, the knowledge of such a mine as that would cause! It is sad

to think of it!”



By evening the balloon had made ninety miles to the westward, and was,

in a direct line, fourteen hundred miles from Zanzibar.







CHAPTER TWENTY-FOURTH.



The Wind dies away.--The Vicinity of the Desert.--The Mistake in

Joe brought up with him some pieces of a leathern bottle that had grown

hard and horn-like with age, and angrily flung them away among the

bleaching bones of the caravan.



At supper, not a word was spoken by our travellers, and they even ate

without appetite. Yet they had not, up to this moment, endured the real

agonies of thirst, and were in no desponding mood, excepting for the

future.







CHAPTER TWENTY-SIXTH.



One Hundred and Thirteen Degrees.--The Doctor’s Reflections.--A

Desperate Search.--The Cylinder goes out.--One Hundred and

Twenty-two Degrees.--Contemplation of the Desert.--A Night

Walk.--Solitude.--Debility.--Joe’s Prospects.--He gives himself One Day

more.



The distance made by the balloon during the preceding day did not exceed

ten miles, and, to keep it afloat, one hundred and sixty-two cubic feet

of gas had been consumed.



On Saturday morning the doctor again gave the signal for departure.



“The cylinder can work only six hours longer; and, if in that time we

shall not have found either a well or a spring of water, God alone knows

what will become of us!”



“Not much wind this morning, master,” said Joe; “but it will come

up, perhaps,” he added, suddenly remarking the doctor’s ill-concealed

depression.



Vain hope! The atmosphere was in a dead calm--one of those calms which

hold vessels captive in tropical seas. The heat had become intolerable;

and the thermometer, in the shade under the awning, indicated one

hundred and thirteen degrees.



Joe and Kennedy, reclining at full length near each other, tried, if

not in slumber, at least in torpor, to forget their situation, for their

forced inactivity gave them periods of leisure far from pleasant.

That man is to be pitied the most who cannot wean himself from gloomy

reflections by actual work, or some practical pursuit. But here there

was nothing to look after, nothing to undertake, and they had to submit

to the situation, without having it in their power to ameliorate it.



The pangs of thirst began to be severely felt; brandy, far from

appeasing this imperious necessity, augmented it, and richly merited the




“The savages don’t boggle much about it!” said Kennedy.



“Yes; but then they are savages, and accustomed to devouring raw meat;

it’s something that I’d find very disgusting, for my part.”



“It is disgusting enough,” said the doctor, “that’s a fact; and so

much so, indeed, that nobody believed the narratives of the earliest

travellers in Africa who brought back word that many tribes on that

continent subsisted upon raw meat, and people generally refused to

credit the statement. It was under such circumstances that a very

singular adventure befell James Bruce.”



“Tell it to us, doctor; we’ve time enough to hear it,” said Joe,

stretching himself voluptuously on the cool greensward.



“By all means.--James Bruce was a Scotchman, of Stirlingshire, who,

between 1768 and 1772, traversed all Abyssinia, as far as Lake Tyana, in

search of the sources of the Nile. He afterward returned to England, but

did not publish an account of his journeys until 1790. His statements

were received with extreme incredulity, and such may be the reception

accorded to our own. The manners and customs of the Abyssinians seemed

so different from those of the English, that no one would credit the

description of them. Among other details, Bruce had put forward the

assertion that the tribes of Eastern Africa fed upon raw flesh, and this

set everybody against him. He might say so as much as he pleased; there

was no one likely to go and see! One day, in a parlor at Edinburgh, a

Scotch gentleman took up the subject in his presence, as it had become

the topic of daily pleasantry, and, in reference to the eating of raw

flesh, said that the thing was neither possible nor true. Bruce made no

reply, but went out and returned a few minutes later with a raw steak,

seasoned with pepper and salt, in the African style.



“‘Sir,’ said he to the Scotchman, ‘in doubting my statements, you have

grossly affronted me; in believing the thing to be impossible, you have

been egregiously mistaken; and, in proof thereof, you will now eat this

beef-steak raw, or you will give me instant satisfaction!’ The Scotchman



“That is Kernak. The last puffs of the breeze are wafting us to it, and,

if we choose, we can take an exact plan of the place.”



“Shall we not go nearer to it?” asked Kennedy.



“Nothing easier, Dick! We are right over it. Allow me to turn the

stopcock of the cylinder, and we’ll not be long in descending.”



Half an hour later the balloon hung motionless about two hundred feet

from the ground.



“Here we are!” said the doctor, “nearer to Kernak than a man would be to

London, if he were perched in the cupola of St. Paul’s. So we can take a

survey at our ease.”



“What is that tick-tacking sound that we hear on all sides?”



Joe looked attentively, and at length discovered that the noise they

heard was produced by a number of weavers beating cloth stretched in the

open air, on large trunks of trees.



The capital of Loggoum could then be seen in its entire extent, like

an unrolled chart. It is really a city with straight rows of houses

and quite wide streets. In the midst of a large open space there was a

slave-market, attended by a great crowd of customers, for the Mandara

women, who have extremely small hands and feet, are in excellent

request, and can be sold at lucrative rates.



At the sight of the Victoria, the scene so often produced occurred

again. At first there were outcries, and then followed general

stupefaction; business was abandoned; work was flung aside, and

all noise ceased. The aeronauts remained as they were, completely

motionless, and lost not a detail of the populous city. They even went

down to within sixty feet of the ground.



Hereupon the Governor of Loggoum came out from his residence, displaying

his green standard, and accompanied by his musicians, who blew on hoarse

buffalo-horns, as though they would split their cheeks or any thing

else, excepting their own lungs. The crowd at once gathered around him.

In the mean while Dr. Ferguson tried to make himself heard, but in vain.



This population looked like proud and intelligent people, with their




On the morrow, the 13th of May, our travellers, for the first time,

reconnoitred the part of the coast on which they had landed. It was a

sort of island of solid ground in the midst of an immense marsh. Around

this fragment of terra firma grew reeds as lofty as trees are in Europe,

and stretching away out of sight.



These impenetrable swamps gave security to the position of the balloon.

It was necessary to watch only the borders of the lake. The vast stretch

of water broadened away from the spot, especially toward the east, and

nothing could be seen on the horizon, neither mainland nor islands.



The two friends had not yet ventured to speak of their recent companion.

Kennedy first imparted his conjectures to the doctor.



“Perhaps Joe is not lost after all,” he said. “He was a skilful lad,

and had few equals as a swimmer. He would find no difficulty in swimming

across the Firth of Forth at Edinburgh. We shall see him again--but how

and where I know not. Let us omit nothing on our part to give him the

chance of rejoining us.”



“May God grant it as you say, Dick!” replied the doctor, with much

emotion. “We shall do everything in the world to find our lost friend

again. Let us, in the first place, see where we are. But, above all

things, let us rid the Victoria of this outside covering, which is of

no further use. That will relieve us of six hundred and fifty pounds, a

weight not to be despised--and the end is worth the trouble!”



The doctor and Kennedy went to work at once, but they encountered great

difficulty. They had to tear the strong silk away piece by piece, and

then cut it in narrow strips so as to extricate it from the meshes of

the network. The tear made by the beaks of the condors was found to be

several feet in length.



This operation took at least four hours, but at length the inner balloon

once completely extricated did not appear to have suffered in the least

degree. The Victoria was thus diminished in size by one fifth, and this

circled round and round the sacred hut with contortions and grimaces.



Joe could catch the sound of this deafening orchestra, through the

mud and reeds of which his cabin was built; and perhaps under other

circumstances he might have been amused by these strange ceremonies;

but his mind was soon disturbed by quite different and less agreeable

reflections. Even looking at the bright side of things, he found it both

stupid and sad to be left alone in the midst of this savage country

and among these wild tribes. Few travellers who had penetrated to these

regions had ever again seen their native land. Moreover, could he trust

to the worship of which he saw himself the object? He had good reason to

believe in the vanity of human greatness; and he asked himself whether,

in this country, adoration did not sometimes go to the length of eating

the object adored!



But, notwithstanding this rather perplexing prospect, after some hours

of meditation, fatigue got the better of his gloomy thoughts, and Joe

fell into a profound slumber, which would have lasted no doubt until

sunrise, had not a very unexpected sensation of dampness awakened the

sleeper. Ere long this dampness became water, and that water gained so

rapidly that it had soon mounted to Joe’s waist.



“What can this be?” said he; “a flood! a water-spout! or a new torture

invented by these blacks? Faith, though, I’m not going to wait here till

it’s up to my neck!”



And, so saying, he burst through the frail wall with a jog of his

powerful shoulder, and found himself--where?--in the open lake! Island

there was none. It had sunk during the night. In its place, the watery

immensity of Lake Tchad!



“A poor country for the land-owners!” said Joe, once more vigorously

resorting to his skill in the art of natation.



One of those phenomena, which are by no means unusual on Lake Tchad, had

liberated our brave Joe. More than one island, that previously seemed

to have the solidity of rock, has been submerged in this way; and the

people living along the shores of the mainland have had to pick up the


suits me!’ said I, ‘for I can see better ahead of me and farther too.’ I

was hoping all the time to see the balloon tacking about and waiting for

me. But not a bit of it; and so, in about three hours, I go plump, like

a fool, into a camp of Arabs! Whew! what a hunt that was! You see, Mr.

Kennedy, a hunter don’t know what a real hunt is until he’s been hunted

himself! Still I advise him not to try it if he can keep out of it! My

horse was so tired, he was ready to drop off his legs; they were close

on me; I threw myself to the ground; then I jumped up again behind an

Arab! I didn’t mean the fellow any harm, and I hope he has no grudge

against me for choking him, but I saw you--and you know the rest.

The Victoria came on at my heels, and you caught me up flying, as

a circus-rider does a ring. Wasn’t I right in counting on you? Now,

doctor, you see how simple all that was! Nothing more natural in the

world! I’m ready to begin over again, if it would be of any service

to you. And besides, master, as I said a while ago, it’s not worth

mentioning.”



“My noble, gallant Joe!” said the doctor, with great feeling. “Heart of

gold! we were not astray in trusting to your intelligence and skill.”



“Poh! doctor, one has only just to follow things along as they happen,

and he can always work his way out of a scrape! The safest plan, you

see, is to take matters as they come.”



While Joe was telling his experience, the balloon had rapidly passed

over a long reach of country, and Kennedy soon pointed out on the

horizon a collection of structures that looked like a town. The doctor

glanced at his map and recognized the place as the large village of

Tagelei, in the Damerghou country.



“Here,” said he, “we come upon Dr. Barth’s route. It was at this place

that he parted from his companions, Richardson and Overweg; the first

was to follow the Zinder route, and the second that of Maradi; and you

of Grasshoppers.--A View of Jenne.--A View of Sego.--Change of the

Wind.--Joe’s Regrets.



The flow of the river was, at that point, divided by large islands into

narrow branches, with a very rapid current. Upon one among them stood

some shepherds’ huts, but it had become impossible to take an exact

observation of them, because the speed of the balloon was constantly

increasing. Unfortunately, it turned still more toward the south, and in

a few moments crossed Lake Debo.



Dr. Ferguson, forcing the dilation of his aerial craft to the utmost,

sought for other currents of air at different heights, but in vain; and

he soon gave up the attempt, which was only augmenting the waste of gas

by pressing it against the well-worn tissue of the balloon.



He made no remark, but he began to feel very anxious. This persistence

of the wind to head him off toward the southern part of Africa was

defeating his calculations, and he no longer knew upon whom or upon what

to depend. Should he not reach the English or French territories, what

was to become of him in the midst of the barbarous tribes that infest

the coasts of Guinea? How should he there get to a ship to take him back

to England? And the actual direction of the wind was driving him along

to the kingdom of Dahomey, among the most savage races, and into the

power of a ruler who was in the habit of sacrificing thousands of human

victims at his public orgies. There he would be lost!



On the other hand, the balloon was visibly wearing out, and the doctor

felt it failing him. However, as the weather was clearing up a little,

he hoped that the cessation of the rain would bring about a change in

the atmospheric currents.



It was therefore a disagreeable reminder of the actual situation when

Joe said aloud:



“There! the rain’s going to pour down harder than ever; and this time it

will be the deluge itself, if we’re to judge by yon cloud that’s coming

up!”



“What! another cloud?” asked Ferguson.



“Yes, and a famous one,” replied Kennedy.




“Lie down, my friends, and get some rest,” said the doctor. “I’ll take

the first watch; at two o’clock I’ll waken Kennedy; at four, Kennedy

will waken Joe, and at six we’ll start; and may Heaven have us in its

keeping for this last day of the trip!”



Without waiting to be coaxed, the doctor’s two companions stretched

themselves at the bottom of the car and dropped into profound slumber on

the instant.



The night was calm. A few clouds broke against the last quarter of the

moon, whose uncertain rays scarcely pierced the darkness. Ferguson,

resting his elbows on the rim of the car, gazed attentively around him.

He watched with close attention the dark screen of foliage that spread

beneath him, hiding the ground from his view. The least noise aroused

his suspicions, and he questioned even the slightest rustling of the

leaves.



He was in that mood which solitude makes more keenly felt, and during

which vague terrors mount to the brain. At the close of such a journey,

after having surmounted so many obstacles, and at the moment of touching

the goal, one’s fears are more vivid, one’s emotions keener. The point

of arrival seems to fly farther from our gaze.



Moreover, the present situation had nothing very consolatory about it.

They were in the midst of a barbarous country, and dependent upon a

vehicle that might fail them at any moment. The doctor no longer counted

implicitly on his balloon; the time had gone by when he manoevred it

boldly because he felt sure of it.



Under the influence of these impressions, the doctor, from time to time,

thought that he heard vague sounds in the vast forests around him;

he even fancied that he saw a swift gleam of fire shining between the

trees. He looked sharply and turned his night-glass toward the spot; but

there was nothing to be seen, and the profoundest silence appeared to

return.



He had, no doubt, been under the dominion of a mere hallucination. He

continued to listen, but without hearing the slightest noise. When his

watch had expired, he woke Kennedy, and, enjoining upon him to observe

