





                           Copyright 1904



                                by



                          L. Frank Baum



                       All rights reserved



                      Published, July, 1904











                         Author's Note



After the publication of "The Wonderful Wizard of OZ" I began to receive

letters from children, telling me of their pleasure in reading the story and

asking me to "write something more" about the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.

At first I considered these little letters, frank and earnest though they

were, in the light of pretty compliments; but the letters continued to come

during succeeding months, and even years.



Finally I promised one little girl, who made a long journey to see me and

prefer her request,--and she is a "Dorothy," by the way--that when a

thousand little girls had written me a thousand little letters asking for

the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman I would write the book, Either little

Dorothy was a fairy in disguise, and waved her magic wand, or the success of

the stage production of "The Wizard of OZ" made new friends for the story,

For the thousand letters reached their destination long since--and many

more followed them.



And now, although pleading guilty to long delay, I have kept my promise in

this book.




"Heh!" ejaculated Mombi, giving a sort of grunt; "that rascally boy has

been playing tricks again! Very good! ve--ry good! I'll beat him black-

and-blue for trying to scare me in this fashion!"



Angrily she raised her stick to smash in the grinning pumpkin head of the

dummy; but a sudden thought made her pause, the uplifted stick left

motionless in the air.



"Why, here is a good chance to try my new powder!" said she, eagerly. "And

then I can tell whether that crooked wizard has fairly traded secrets, or

whether he has fooled me as wickedly as I fooled him."







18



So she set down her basket and began fumbling in it for one of the precious

powders she had obtained.



While Mombi was thus occupied Tip strolled back, with his pockets full of

nuts, and discovered the old woman standing beside his man and apparently

not the least bit frightened by it.



At first he was generally disappointed; but the next moment he became

curious to know what Mombi was going to do. So he hid behind a hedge, where

he could see without being seen, and prepared to watch.



After some search the woman drew from her basket an old pepper-box, upon the

faded label of which the wizard had written with a lead-pencil:



"Powder of Life."



"Ah--here it is!" she cried, joyfully. "And now let us see if it is

potent. The stingy wizard didn't give me much of it, but I guess there's

enough for two or three doses."



Tip was much surprised when he overheard this speech. Then he saw old Mombi

raise her arm and sprinkle the powder from the box over the pumpkin head of

his man Jack. She did this in the same way one would pepper a baked potato,

and the powder sifted down from Jack's head and scattered







19               Full page line-art drawing.



               "OLD MOMBI DANCED AROUND HIM"

headed man had been left.



Jack was standing in the middle of the stall, and by the moonlight Tip could

see he was smiling just as jovially as ever.



"Come on!" said the boy, beckoning.



"Where to?" asked Jack.



"You'll know as soon as I do," answered Tip, smiling sympathetically into

the pumpkin face.



"All we've got to do now is to tramp."



"Very well," returned Jack, and walked awkwardly out of the stable and into

the moonlight.



Tip turned toward the road and the man followed him. Jack walked with a sort

of limp, and occasionally one of the joints of his legs would turn backward,

instead of frontwise, almost causing him to tumble. But the Pumpkinhead was

quick to notice this, and began to take more pains to step carefully; so

that he met with few accidents.



Tip led him along the path without stopping an instant. They could not go

very fast, but they walked steadily; and by the time the moon sank away and

the sun peeped over the hills they had travelled so great a distance that

the boy had no reason to fear pursuit from the old witch. Moreover, he had

turned first into one path, and then into another, so that should anyone

follow them it







33

would prove very difficult to guess which way they had gone, or where to

seek them.



Fairly satisfied that he had escaped--for a time, at least--being turned

into a marble statue, the boy stopped his companion and seated himself upon

a rock by the roadside.



"Let's have some breakfast," he said.



Jack Pumpkinhead watched Tip curiously, but refused to join in the repast.

"I don't seem to be made the same way you are," he said.



"I know you are not," returned Tip; "for I made you."



"Oh! Did you?" asked Jack.



"Certainly. And put you together. And carved your eyes and nose and ears and



               Line-Art Drawing along the right side of the page


chopped-out mouth, and shook a few grains of the powder off its back. The

rest of the powder seemed to have vanished into the body of the horse.



"Good!" called Jack, while the boy looked on in astonishment. "You are a

very clever sorcerer, dear father!"



               Line-Art Drawing







46               Full page line-art drawing.







47               The Awakening of the Saw-horse





The Saw-Horse, finding himself alive, seemed even more astonished than Tip.

He rolled his knotty eyes from side to side, taking a first wondering view

of the world in which he had now so important an existence. Then he tried to

look at himself; but he had, indeed, no neck to turn; so that in the

endeavor to see his body he kept circling around and around, without

catching even a glimpse of it. His legs were stiff and awkward, for there

were no knee-joints in them; so that presently he bumped against Jack

Pumpkinhead and sent that personage tumbling upon the moss that lined the

roadside.







48



Tip became alarmed at this accident, as well as at the persistence of the

Saw-Horse in prancing around in a circle; so he called out:



"Whoa! Whoa, there!"



The Saw-Horse paid no attention whatever to this command, and the next

instant brought one of his wooden legs down upon Tip's foot so forcibly that

the boy danced away in pain to a safer distance, from where he again yelled:



"Whoa! Whoa, I say!"



Jack had now managed to raise himself to a sitting position, and he looked

at the Saw-Horse with much interest.



"I don't believe the animal can hear you," he remarked.



"I shout loud enough, don't I?" answered Tip, angrily.



"Yes; but the horse has no ears," said the smiling Pumpkinhead.

"None at all?" inquired the man.



"None at all," answered the boy.



"Then I'll not break my back rowing you over," said the ferryman, decidedly.



"What a nice man!" remarked the Pumpkinhead, smilingly.



The ferryman stared at him, but made no reply. Tip was trying to think, for

it was a great disappointment to him to find his journey so suddenly brought

to an end.



"I must certainly get to the Emerald City," he said to the boatman; "but how

can I cross the river if you do not take me?"



The man laughed, and it was not a nice laugh.



"That wooden horse will float," said he; "and







61               Line-Art Drawing



you can ride him across. As for the pumpkinheaded loon who accompanies you,

let him sink or swim it won't matter greatly which."



"Don't worry about me," said Jack, smiling pleasantly upon the crabbed

ferryman; "I'm sure I ought to float beautifully."



Tip thought the experiment was worth making, and the Saw-Horse, who did not

know what danger meant, offered no objections whatever. So the boy led it

down into the water and climbed upon its back. Jack also waded in up to his

knees and







62

grasped the tail of the horse so that he might keep his pumpkin head above

the water.



"Now," said Tip, instructing the Saw-Horse, "if you wiggle your legs you

will probably swim; and if you swim we shall probably reach the other side."



The Saw-Horse at once began to wiggle its legs, which acted as oars and

moved the adventurers slowly across the river to the opposite side. So

successful was the trip that presently they were climbing, wet and dripping,

up the grassy bank.



Tip's trouser-legs and shoes were thoroughly soaked; but the Saw-Horse had

floated so perfectly that from his knees up the boy was entirely dry. As for

the Pumpkinhead, every stitch of his gorgeous clothing dripped water.


74



"What don't you understand?" asked the Scarecrow.



"Why, I don't understand your language. You see, I came from the Country of

the Gillikins, so that I am a foreigner."



"Ah, to be sure!" exclaimed the Scarecrow. "I myself speak the language of

the Munchkins, which is also the language of the Emerald City. But you, I

suppose, speak the language of the Pumpkinheads?"



"Exactly so, your Majesty" replied the other, bowing; "so it will be

impossible for us to understand one another."



"That is unfortunate, certainly," said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully. "We must

have an interpreter."



"What is an interpreter?" asked Jack.



"A person who understands both my language and your own. When I say

anything, the interpreter can tell you what I mean; and when you say

anything the interpreter can tell me what you mean. For the interpreter can

speak both languages as well as understand them."



"That is certainly clever," said Jack, greatly pleased at finding so simple

a way out of the difficulty.



So the Scarecrow commanded the Soldier with the Green Whiskers to search

among his people







75

until he found one who understood the language of the Gillikins as well as

the language of the Emerald City, and to bring that person to him at once.



When the Soldier had departed the Scarecrow said:



"Won't you take a chair while we are waiting?"



"Your Majesty forgets that I cannot understand you," replied the

Pumpkinhead. "If you wish me to sit down you must make a sign for me to do

so." The Scarecrow came down from his throne and rolled an armchair to a

position behind the Pumpkinhead. Then he gave Jack a sudden push that sent

him sprawling upon the cushions in so awkward a fashion that he doubled up

like a jackknife, and had hard work to untangle himself.



"Did you understand that sign?" asked His Majesty, politely.



"Perfectly," declared Jack, reaching up his arms to turn his head to the

front, the pumpkin having twisted around upon the stick that supported it.



88

out by the roots. When the Wonderful Wizard reigned the Soldier with the

Green Whiskers was a very good Royal Army, for people feared the Wizard. But

no one is afraid of the Scarecrow, so his Royal Army don't count for much in

time of war."



After this conversation they proceeded some distance in silence, and before

long reached a large clearing in the forest where fully four hundred young

women were assembled. These were laughing and talking together as gaily as

if they had gathered for a picnic instead of a war of conquest.



They were divided into four companies, and Tip noticed that all were dressed

in costumes similar to that worn by General Jinjur. The only real difference

was that while those girls from the Munchkin country had the blue strip in

front of their skirts, those from the country of the Quadlings had the red

strip in front; and those from the country of the Winkies had the yellow

strip in front, and the Gillikin girls wore the purple strip in front. All

had green waists, representing the Emerald City they intended to conquer,

and the top button on each waist indicated by its color which country the

wearer came from. The uniforms were Jaunty and becoming, and quite effective

when massed together.



Tip thought this strange Army bore no weapons







89

whatever; but in this he was wrong. For each girl had stuck through the knot

of her back hair two long, glittering knitting-needles.



General Jinjur immediately mounted the stump of a tree and addressed her

army.



"Friends, fellow-citizens, and girls!" she said; "we are about to begin our

great Revolt against the men of Oz! We march to conquer the Emerald City--to

dethrone the Scarecrow King--to acquire thousands of gorgeous gems--to

rifle the royal treasury--and to obtain power over our former

oppressors!"



"Hurrah!" said those who had listened; but Tip thought most of the Army was

too much engaged in chattering to pay attention to the words of the General.



The command to march was now given, and the girls formed themselves into


"He can't carry four!" objected Tip.



"No, but he may be induced to carry three," said his Majesty. "I shall

therefore leave my Royal Army Behind. For, from the ease with which he was

conquered, I have little confidence in his powers."



"Still, he can run," declared Tip, laughing.



"I expected this blow" said the Soldier, sulkily; "but I can bear it. I

shall disguise myself by cutting off my lovely green whiskers. And, after

all, it is no more dangerous to face those reckless girls than to ride this

fiery, untamed wooden horse!"



"Perhaps you are right," observed his Majesty. "But, for my part, not being

a soldier, I am fond of danger. Now, my boy, you must mount first. And

please sit as close to the horse's neck as possible."



Tip climbed quickly to his place, and the Soldier and the Scarecrow managed

to hoist the Pumpkinhead to a seat just behind him. There remained so little

space for the King that he was liable to fall off as soon as the horse

started.



"Fetch a clothesline," said the King to his Army, "and tie us all together.

Then if one falls off we will all fall off."



And while the Soldier was gone for the clothesline his Majesty continued,

"it is well for me to be careful, for my very existence is in danger."







104



"I have to be as careful as you do," said Jack.



"Not exactly," replied the Scarecrow. "for if anything happened to me, that

would be the end of me. But if anything happened to you, they could use you

for seed."



The Soldier now returned with a long line and tied all three firmly

together, also lashing them to the body of the Saw-Horse; so there seemed

little danger of their tumbling off.



"Now throw open the gates," commanded the Scarecrow, "and we will make a

dash to liberty or to death."



The courtyard in which they were standing was located in the center of the

great palace, which surrounded it on all sides. But in one place a passage





118



"I can't sleep," said Jack.



"I never do," said the Scarecrow.



"I do not even know what sleep is," said the Saw-Horse.



"Still, we must have consideration for this poor boy, who is made of flesh

and blood and bone, and gets tired," suggested the Scarecrow, in his usual

thoughtful manner. "I remember it was the same way with little Dorothy. We

always had to sit through the night while she slept."



"I'm sorry," said Tip, meekly, "but I can't help it. And I'm dreadfully

hungry, too!"



"Here is a new danger!" remarked Jack, gloomily. "I hope you are not fond of

eating pumpkins."



"Not unless they're stewed and made into pies," answered the boy, laughing.

"So have no fears of me, friend Jack."



"What a coward that Pumpkinhead is!" said the Saw-Horse, scornfully.



"You might be a coward yourself, if you knew you were liable to spoil!"

retorted Jack, angrily.



"There!--there!" interrupted the Scarecrow; "don't let us quarrel. We all

have our weaknesses, dear friends; so we must strive to be considerate of

one another. And since this poor boy is hungry and has nothing whatever to

eat, let us all remain







119

quiet and allow him to sleep; for it is said that in sleep a mortal may

forget even hunger."



"Thank you!" exclaimed Tip, gratefully. "Your Majesty is fully as good as

you are wise--and that is saying a good deal!"



He then stretched himself upon the grass and, using the stuffed form of the

Scarecrow for a pillow, was presently fast asleep.





               Line-Art Drawing







120               Full page line-art drawing.







121               A Nickel-Plated Emperor





Tip awoke soon after dawn, but the Scarecrow had already risen and plucked,


the kingdom during his absence. Meanwhile the Scarecrow was taken apart and

the painted sack that served him for a head was carefully laundered and

restuffed with the brains originally given him by the great Wizard. His

clothes were also cleaned and pressed by the Imperial tailors, and his crown

polished and again sewed upon his head, for the Tin Woodman insisted he

should not renounce this badge of royalty. The Scarecrow now presented a

very respectable appearance, and although in no way addicted to vanity he







133

was quite pleased with himself and strutted a trifle as he walked. While

this was being done Tip mended the wooden limbs of Jack Pumpkinhead and made

them stronger than before, and the Saw-Horse was also inspected to see if he

was in good working order.



Then bright and early the next morning they set out upon the return Journey

to the emerald City, the Tin Woodman bearing upon his shoulder a gleaming

axe and leading the way, while the Pumpkinhead rode upon the Saw-Horse and

Tip and the Scarecrow walked upon either side to make sure that he didn't

fall off or become damaged.





               Line-Art Drawing







134               Full page line-art drawing.







135               Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E.





Now, General Jinjur--who, you will remember, commanded the Army of Revolt--was

rendered very uneasy by the escape of the Scarecrow from the Emerald

City. She feared, and with good reason, that if his Majesty and the Tin

Woodman Joined forces, it would mean danger to her and her entire army; for

the people of Oz had not yet forgotten the deeds of these famous heroes, who

had passed successfully through so many startling adventures.



So Jinjur sent post-haste for old Mombi, the witch, and promised her large

rewards if she would come to the assistance of the rebel army.





"It is but honest that I should acknowledge at the beginning of my recital

that I was born an ordinary Woggle-Bug," began the creature, in a frank and

friendly tone. "Knowing no better, I used my arms as well as my legs for

walking, and crawled under the edges of stones or hid among the roots of

grasses with no thought beyond finding a few insects smaller than myself to

feed upon.



"The chill nights rendered me stiff and motionless, for I wore no clothing,

but each morning the warm rays of the sun gave me new life and restored me

to activity. A horrible existence is this, but you must remember it is the

regular ordained existence of Woggle-Bugs, as well as of many other tiny

creatures that inhabit the earth.



"But Destiny had singled me out, humble though I was, for a grander fate!

One day I crawled near







148

to a country school house, and my curiosity being excited by the monotonous

hum of the students within, I made bold to enter and creep along a crack

between two boards until I reached the far end, where, in front of a hearth

of glowing embers, sat the master at his desk.



"No one noticed so small a creature as a Woggle-Bug, and when I found that

the hearth was even warmer and more comfortable than the sunshine, I

resolved to establish my future home beside it. So I found a charming nest

between two bricks and hid myself therein for many, many months.



"Professor Nowitall is, doubtless, the most famous scholar in the land of

Oz, and after a few days I began to listen to the lectures and discourses he

gave his pupils. Not one of them was more attentive than the humble,

unnoticed Woggle-Bug, and I acquired in this way a fund of knowledge that I

will myself confess is simply marvelous. That is why I place 'T.E.'

Thoroughly Educated upon my cards; for my greatest pride lies in the fact

that the world cannot produce another Woggle-Bug with a tenth part of my own

culture and erudition."




But the Woggle-Bug strutted along as if he had made some brilliant remark,

and the Scarecrow was obliged to say:



"I have heard, my dear friend, that a person can become over-educated; and

although I have a high respect for brains, no matter how they may be

arranged or classified, I begin to suspect that yours are slightly tangled.

In any event, I must beg you to restrain your superior education while in

our society."



"We are not very particular," added the Tin Woodman; "and we are exceedingly

kind hearted. But if your superior culture gets leaky again--" He did not

complete the sentence, but he twirled his gleaming axe so carelessly that

the Woggle-Bug looked frightened, and shrank away to a safe distance.



The others marched on in silence, and the Highly Magnified one, after a

period of deep thought, said in an humble voice:



"I will endeavor to restrain myself."







162



"That is all we can expect," returned the Scarecrow pleasantly; and good

nature being thus happily restored to the party, they proceeded upon their

way.



When they again stopped to allow Tip to rest--the boy being the only one

that seemed to tire--the Tin Woodman noticed many small, round holes in

the grassy meadow.



"This must be a village of the Field Mice," he said to the Scarecrow." I

wonder if my old friend, the Queen of the Mice, is in this neighborhood."



"If she is, she may be of great service to us," answered the Scarecrow, who

was impressed by a sudden thought. "See if you can call her, my dear Nick."



So the Tin Woodman blew a shrill note upon a silver whistle that hung around

his neck, and presently a tiny grey mouse popped from a near-by hole and

advanced fearlessly toward them. For the Tin Woodman had once saved her

life, and the Queen of the Field Mice knew he was to be trusted."



"Good day, your Majesty, said Nick, politely addressing the mouse; "I trust

you are enjoying good health?"




promises to be good?" enquired Tip. Jinjur's lip curled scornfully.



"Or give her a good shaking!" added the Saw-Horse.



"No," said the Tin Woodman, "we must treat the poor girl with gentleness.

Let us give her all the Jewels she can carry, and send her away happy and

contented."







175



At this Queen Jinjur laughed aloud, and the next minute clapped her pretty

hands together thrice, as if for a signal.



"You are very absurd creatures," said she; "but I am tired of your nonsense

and have no time to bother with you longer."



While the monarch and his friends listened in amazement to this impudent

speech, a startling thing happened. The Tin Woodman's axe was snatched from

his grasp by some person behind him, and he found himself disarmed and

helpless. At the same instant a shout of laughter rang in the ears of the

devoted band, and turning to see whence this came they found themselves

surrounded by the Army of Revolt, the girls bearing in either hand their

glistening knitting-needles. The entire throne room seemed to be filled with

the rebels, and the Scarecrow and his comrades realized that they were

prisoners.



"You see how foolish it is to oppose a woman's wit," said Jinjur, gaily;

"and this event only proves that I am more fit to rule the Emerald City than

a Scarecrow. I bear you no ill will, I assure you; but lest you should prove

troublesome to me in the future I shall order you all to be destroyed. That

is, all except the boy, who belongs to old Mombi and must be restored to her

keeping. The rest of







176

you are not human, and therefore it will not be wicked to demolish you. The

Saw-Horse and the Pumpkinhead's body I will have chopped up for kindling-

wood; and the pumpkin shall be made into tarts. The Scarecrow will do nicely

to start a bonfire, and the tin man can be cut into small pieces and fed to

the goats. As for this immense Woggle-Bug--"



"Highly Magnified, if you please!" interrupted the insect.


Jack Pumpkinhead, who was very proud of the acquisition.



"It seems strange," said he, as he watched the Tin Woodman work, "that my

left leg should be the most elegant and substantial part of me."



"That proves you are unusual," returned the Scarecrow. "and I am convinced

that the only people worthy of consideration in this world are the unusual

ones. For the common folks are like the leaves of a tree, and live and die

unnoticed."



"Spoken like a philosopher!" cried the Woggle-Bug, as he assisted the Tin

Woodman to set Jack upon his feet.



"How do you feel now?" asked Tip, watching







189

the Pumpkinhead stump around to try his new leg."



As good as new" answered Jack, Joyfully, "and quite ready to assist you all

to escape."



"Then let us get to work," said the Scarecrow, in a business-like tone.



So, glad to be doing anything that might lead to the end of their captivity,

the friends separated to wander over the palace in search of fitting

material to use in the construction of their aerial machine.



               Line-Art Drawing







190               Full page line-art drawing.







191               The Astonishing Flight of the Gump





When the adventurers reassembled upon the roof it was found that a

remarkably queer assortment of articles had been selected by the various

members of the party. No one seemed to have a very clear idea of what was

required, but all had brought something.



The Woggle-Bug had taken from its position over the mantle-piece in the

great hallway the head of a Gump, which was adorned with wide-spreading

antlers; and this, with great care and greater difficulty, the insect had

carried up the stairs to the roof. This Gump resembled an Elk's head, only



"My smile," said Jack Pumpkinhead, "is worthy your best attention. It is

always the same."



"Semper idem," explained the Woggle-Bug, pompously; and the Gump turned to

stare at him.



"And I," declared the Saw-Horse, filling in an awkward pause, "am only

remarkable because I can't help it."



"I am proud, indeed, to meet with such exceptional masters," said the Gump,

in a careless tone. "If I could but secure so complete an introduction to

myself, I would be more than satisfied."



"That will come in time," remarked the Scare-







204

crow. "To 'Know Thyself' is considered quite an accomplishment, which it has

taken us, who are your elders, months to perfect. But now," he added,

turning to the others, "let us get aboard and start upon our journey."



"Where shall we go?" asked Tip, as he clambered to a seat on the sofas and

assisted the Pumpkinhead to follow him.



"In the South Country rules a very delightful Queen called Glinda the Good,

who I am sure will gladly receive us," said the Scarecrow, getting into the

Thing clumsily. "Let us go to her and ask her advice."



"That is cleverly thought of," declared Nick Chopper, giving the Woggle-Bug

a boost and then toppling the Saw-Horse into the rear end of the cushioned

seats." I know Glinda the Good, and believe she will prove a friend indeed."



"Are we all ready?" asked the boy.



"Yes," announced the Tin Woodman, seating himself beside the Scarecrow.



"Then," said Tip, addressing the Gump, "be kind enough to fly with us to the

Southward; and do not go higher than to escape the houses and trees, for it

makes me dizzy to be up so far."



"All right," answered the Gump, briefly.







205



It flopped its four huge wings and rose slowly into the air; and then, while

our little band of adventurers clung to the backs and sides of the sofas for

support, the Gump turned toward the South and soared swiftly and





"Of course they will," said Tip; "for this is their nest. And there must be

hundreds of them," he continued, "for see what a lot of things they have

brought here!"



Indeed, the nest was half filled with a most curious collection of small

articles for which the birds could have no use, but which the thieving

Jackdaws had stolen during many years from the homes of men. And as the nest

was safely hidden where no human being could reach it, this lost property

would never be recovered.



The Woggle-Bug, searching among the rubbish--for the Jackdaws stole

useless things as well as valuable ones--turned up with his foot a

beautiful diamond necklace. This was so greatly admired by the Tin Woodman

that the Woggle-Bug presented it to him with a graceful speech, after which

the Woodman hung it around his neck with much pride,







216               Full page line-art drawing.



               TURNED UP A BEAUTIFUL DIAMOND NECKLACE.







217

rejoicing exceedingly when the big diamonds glittered in the sun's rays.



But now they heard a great jabbering and flopping of wings, and as the sound

grew nearer to them Tip exclaimed:



"The Jackdaws are coming! And if they find us here they will surely kill us

in their anger."



"I was afraid of this!" moaned the Pumpkinhead. "My time has come!"



"And mine, also!" said the Woggle-Bug; "for Jackdaws are the greatest

enemies of my race."



The others were not at all afraid; but the Scarecrow at once decided to save

those of the party who were liable to be injured by the angry birds. So he

commanded Tip to take off Jack's head and lie down with it in the bottom of

the nest, and when this was done he ordered the Woggle-Bug to lie beside

Tip. Nick Chopper, who knew from past experience Just what to do, then took

the Scarecrow to pieces (all except his head) and scattered the straw over



"I wish the Gump's broken wings mended, and







229

as good as new!" said the Woggle-Bug, in a slow; impressive voice.



All turned to look at the Thing, and so quickly had the wish been granted

that the Gump lay before them in perfect repair, and as well able to fly

through the air as when it had first been brought to life on the roof of the

palace.





               Line-Art Drawing







230               Full page line-art drawing.







231               The Scarecrow Appeals to Glinda the Good





"Hooray!" shouted the Scarecrow, gaily. "We can now leave this miserable

Jackdaws' nest whenever we please."



"But it is nearly dark," said the Tin Woodman; "and unless we wait until

morning to make our flight we may get into more trouble. I don't like these

night trips, for one never knows what will happen."



So it was decided to wait until daylight, and the adventurers amused

themselves in the twilight by searching the Jackdaws' nest for treasures.



The Woggle-Bug found two handsome bracelets of wrought gold, which fitted

his slender arms very well. The Scarecrow took a fancy for rings, of which

there were many in the nest. Before long he







232

had fitted a ring to each finger of his padded gloves, and not being content

with that display he added one more to each thumb. As he carefully chose

those rings set with sparkling stones, such as rubies, amethysts and

sapphires, the Scarecrow's hands now presented a most brilliant appearance.



"This nest would be a picnic for Queen Jinjur," said he, musingly. "for as

nearly as I can make out she and her girls conquered me merely to rob my

city of its emeralds."



The Tin Woodman was content with his diamond necklace and refused to accept


With this gracious speech Glinda dismissed the adventurers, and they

wandered away through the beautiful gardens, where they passed several hours

enjoying all the delightful things with which the Queen of the Southland had

surrounded her royal palace.



On the following morning they again appeared before Glinda, who said to

them:



"I have searched carefully through the records of the Wizard's actions, and

among them I can find but three that appear to have been suspicious. He ate

beans with a knife, made three secret visits to old Mombi, and limped

slightly on his left foot."



"Ah! that last is certainly suspicious!" exclaimed the Pumpkinhead.



"Not necessarily," said the Scarecrow. "he may, have had corns. Now, it

seems to me his eating beans with a knife is more suspicious."



"Perhaps it is a polite custom in Omaha, from which great country the Wizard

originally came," suggested the Tin Woodman.



"It may be," admitted the Scarecrow.







244



"But why," asked Glinda, "did he make three secret visits to old Mombi?"



"Ah! Why, indeed!" echoed the Woggle-Bug, impressively.



"We know that the Wizard taught the old woman many of his tricks of magic,"

continued Glinda; "and this he would not have done had she not assisted him

in some way. So we may suspect with good reason that Mombi aided him to hide

the girl Ozma, who was the real heir to the throne of the Emerald City, and

a constant danger to the usurper. For, if the people knew that she lived,

they would quickly make her their Queen and restore her to her rightful

position."



"An able argument!" cried the Scarecrow. "I have no doubt that Mombi was

mixed up in this wicked business. But how does that knowledge help us?"



"We must find Mombi," replied Glinda, "and force her to tell where the girl

is hidden."



"Mombi is now with Queen Jinjur, in the Emerald, City" said Tip. "It was she

who threw so many obstacles in our pathway, and made Jinjur threaten to

destroy my friends and give me back into the old witch's power."



"Something else must really be done," replied Glinda, with a smile. "yet I

cannot understand how I have been defeated so easily by an old Witch who

knows far less of magic than I do myself."



"While we are on the ground I believe it would be wise for us to conquer the

Emerald City for Princess Ozma, and find the girl afterward," said the

Scarecrow." And while the girl remains hidden I will gladly rule in her

place, for I understand the business of ruling much better than Jinjur

does."







258



"But I have promised not to molest Jinjur," objected Glinda.



"Suppose you all return with me to my kingdom--or Empire, rather," said

the Tin Woodman, politely including the entire party in a royal wave of his

arm. "It will give me great pleasure to entertain you in my castle, where

there is room enough and to spare. And if any of you wish to be nickel-

plated, my valet will do it free of all expense."



While the Woodman was speaking Glinda's eyes had been noting the rose in his

button-hole, and now she imagined she saw the big red leaves of the flower

tremble slightly. This quickly aroused her suspicions, and in a moment more

the Sorceress had decided that the seeming rose was nothing else than a

transformation of old Mombi. At the same instant Mombi knew she was

discovered and must quickly plan an escape, and as transformations were easy

to her she immediately took the form of a Shadow and glided along the wall

of the tent toward the entrance, thinking thus to disappear.



But Glinda had not only equal cunning, but far more experience than the

Witch. So the Sorceress reached the opening of the tent before the Shadow,

and with a wave of her hand closed the entrance so securely that Mombi could

not find a crack big







259

enough to creep through. The Scarecrow and his friends were greatly

surprised at Glinda's actions; for none of them had noted the Shadow. But

the Sorceress said to them:


               MOMBI POINTED HER LONG, BONY FINGER AT THE BOY







271



"You are not a girl just now" said she, gently, "because Mombi transformed

you into a boy. But you were born a girl, and also a Princess; so you must

resume your proper form, that you may become Queen of the Emerald City."



"Oh, let Jinjur be the Queen!" exclaimed Tip, ready to cry. "I want to stay

a boy, and travel with the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, and the Woggle-

Bug, and Jack--yes! and my friend the Saw-Horse--and the Gump! I don't

want to be a girl!"



"Never mind, old chap," said the Tin Woodman, soothingly; "it don't hurt to

be a girl, I'm told; and we will all remain your faithful friends just the

same. And, to be honest with you, I've always considered girls nicer than

boys."



"They're just as nice, anyway," added the Scarecrow, patting Tip

affectionately upon the head.



"And they are equally good students," proclaimed the Woggle-Bug. "I should

like to become your tutor, when you are transformed into a girl again."



"But--see here!" said Jack Pumpkinhead, with a gasp: "if you become a

girl, you can't be my dear father any more!"



"No," answered Tip, laughing in spite of his anxiety. "and I shall not be

sorry to escape the relationship." Then he added, hesitatingly, as he turned

to







272               Line-Art Drawing



Glinda: "I might try it for awhile,-just to see how it seems, you know. But

if I don't like being a girl you must promise to change me into a boy

again."



"Really," said the Sorceress, "that is beyond my magic. I never deal in

transformations, for they are not honest, and no respectable sorceress likes

to make things appear to be what they are not. Only unscrupulous witches use

the art, and therefore I must ask Mombi to effect your release from her

