    MAGAZINE, BIG STORY MAGAZINE, MISS 1930, _and_ FOREST AND STREAM



    _More Than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand

     for Clayton Magazines._



    Issued monthly by Publishers' Fiscal Corporation, 80 Lafayette St.,

    New York, N. Y. W. M. Clayton, President; Nathan Goldmann,

    Secretary. Application for entry as second-class mail pending at the

    Post Office at New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Application for

    registration of title as Trade Mark pending in the U.S. Patent

    Office. Member Newsstand Group--Men's List. For advertising rates

    address E. R. Crowe & Co., Inc., 25 Vanderbilt Ave., New York; or

    225 North Michigan Ave., Chicago.









    CONTENTS





    EDITORIAL                         THE EDITOR                     7

      _An Introduction to a New and Unique Magazine._



    THE BEETLE HORDE                   VICTOR ROUSSEAU               8

    _Only Two Young Explorers Stand in the Way of the Mad Bram's

    Horrible Revenge--the Releasing of His Trillions of Man-sized

    Beetles upon an Utterly Defenseless World._ (Part One of a Two-part

    Novel.)



    THE CAVE OF HORROR                 CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK            32

    _Screaming, the Guardsman Was Jerked Through the Air. An Unearthly



But there was no longer any doubt but that they were dropping into a

hole. Not more than a mile around, which explained why neither Scott nor

Amundsen had found it when they approximated to the site of the pole. A

hole--a warm hole, up which a current of warm air was rushing, forming

the white mist that now gradually thinned as the plane descended. The

plateau with its covering of eternal snows loomed in a white circle high

overhead. Underneath was green grass now--grass and trees!



       *       *       *       *       *



The fog was nearly gone. The plane responded to the controls again.

Tommy pushed the stick forward and came round in a tighter circle.



And then something happened that he had not in the least expected. One

moment he seemed to be traveling in a complete calm, a sort of clear

funnel with a ring of swirling fog outside it--the next he was dropping

into a void!



There was no air resistance--there seemed hardly any air, for he felt a

choking in his throat, and a tearing at his lungs as he strove to

breathe. He heard a strangled cry from Dodd, and saw that he was

clutching with both hands at his throat, and his face was turning

purple.



The controls went limp in Tommy's hands. The plane, gyrating more

slowly, suddenly nosed down, hung for a moment in that void, and then

plunged toward the green earth, two hundred feet below, with appalling

swiftness.



Tommy realized that a crash was inevitable. He threw his goggles up over

his forehead, turned and waved to Dodd in ironic farewell. He saw the

earth rush up at him--then came the shattering crash, and then oblivion!









CHAPTER II



_Beetles and Humans_





How long he had remained unconscious, Tommy had no means of determining.

Of a sudden he found himself lying on the ground beside the shattered



It certainly was an apple, and one of the largest and juiciest that

Tommy had ever tasted. It was the reddest apple he had ever seen, and

would have won the first prize at any agricultural fair.



"And look at this!" shouted Tommy, plucking an enormous luminous peach

from another tree.



They began munching slowly, then, seeing one of the beetle guards

approaching them, they moved into the midst of the crowd.



"Did you notice anything strange about those fruit trees?" inquired

Dodd, as he munched. "I'll swear they were monocotyledonous, which,

after all, is what one would expect. Still, to think that the

monocotyledons evolved the familiar drupes, or stone fruits, on a

parallel line to the dicotyledons is--amazing!"



A box on the ear like the kick of a mule's hoof jerked the last word

from his lips as he went sprawling. He got up, to see the girl standing

before him, intense disgust and anger on her face.



She snatched the fruits from the hands of the two Americans and hurled

them away. It was evident from her manner that she considered such diet

in the highest degree unclean and disgusting; also that she considered

herself charged with the duty of superintending Tommy's and Dodd's

education, but especially Dodd's.



       *       *       *       *       *



Taking him by the arm, she propelled him into the midst of the groping

humans. She released him, stooped, and suddenly stood up, a shrimp about

eighteen inches long in her hand.



Towering over Dodd by six inches, she took his face in her hands and

began caressing him; then, seizing his jaws in her strong fingers, she

pried them apart, and popped the tail end of the shrimp into his mouth.



Dodd let out a yelp, and spat out the love-gift, to be rewarded with

another box on the ear by the young Amazon, while Tommy stood by,

convulsed with laughter, and yet in considerable trepidation, for fear

they could be termed nights--lying in a drugged slumber somewhere among

the rocks. They had asked Haidia whether there was any way of escape

into the upper world.



"There are two ways from here," answered the girl. "One is the way you

came, but it is impossible to pass the beetle guards without being torn

to pieces. The other--"



She shuddered, and for an instant drew back the film from across her

pupils, then uttered a little cry of pain at the light, dim though it

was.



"There is a bridge across that terrible monster that devours all it

touches," she said, shuddering, meaning the fire.



Suddenly Dodd had an inspiration. He still had the fur coat that he had

worn, and, reaching into a pocket he drew out a pair of snow goggles,

which he adjusted over Haidia's nose.



"Now look!" he said.



Haidia looked, blinked and, with an effort kept her eyes open. She gazed

at Dodd in amazement. Dodd laughed, and pulled her toward him. He kissed

her, and Haidia's eyes closed.



"What is this?" she murmured. "First you give me medicine that opens my

eyes, and then you give me medicine that closes them."



"That's nothing," grinned Dodd. "Wait till you understand me better."



       *       *       *       *       *



Bram's eyes were preternaturally bright. It was evident that he had been

increasing his dose of late, and that he was fully under the influence

of it now.



"Well, gentlemen, the time has come for us to be frank with one

another," he said, as the three were gathered about the little table,

while Haidia crouched in a far corner of the cave. "I want you to work

for me in my plans for the regeneration of humanity. The time for which

I have long labored is almost at hand. Any day now the new swarm of

beetles may emerge from the pupal stage. But before I speak further,

beetle, lurking among the fungi. He saw a hugely elongated neck, a

three-cornered head with a pair of tentacles, and two pairs of legs as

long as a giraffe's. But what gave the added touch of horror was that

the monster, balancing itself on its hind legs, had its forelegs

extended in the attitude of one holding a prayer-book!



That attitude of devotion was so terrible that Tommy uttered a wild cry

of terror. At the same time another cry broke from Dodd's lips.



"God, a praying mantis!" he shouted, struggling madly to push off his

shell and Haidia's.



The next moment, as if shot from a catapult, the hideous monster

launched itself into the air straight toward them.



(_To be concluded in the February Number._)









The Cave of Horror



_By Captain S. P. Meek_



[Illustration: "_Suddenly, for no apparent reason at all, one of the men

on guard was jerked into the air feet upwards._"]



[Sidenote: Screaming, the guardsman was jerked through the air. An

unearthly screech rang through the cavern. The unseen horror of Mammoth

Cave had struck again.]





Dr. Bird looked up impatiently as the door of his private laboratory in

the Bureau of Standards swung open, but the frown on his face changed to

a smile as he saw the form of Operative Carnes of the United States

Secret Service framed in the doorway.



"Hello, Carnes," he called cheerfully. "Take a seat and make yourself at

home for a few minutes. I'll be with you as soon as I finish getting

this weight."



Carnes sat on the edge of a bench and watched with admiration the long

nervous hands and the slim tapering fingers of the famous scientist. Dr.

Bird stood well over six feet and weighed two hundred and six pounds

stripped: his massive shoulders and heavy shock of unruly black hair

combined to give him the appearance of a prize-fighter--until one looked

at his hands. Acid stains and scars could not hide the beauty of those

mobile hands, the hands of an artist and a dreamer. An artist Dr. Bird



"No, I didn't. No one has ever seen it or anything like it. I heard it

and, from its voice, I think it has a bad cold. At least, it sounded

hoarse, so I gave it a little white phosphorus to make a poultice for

its throat, but I didn't get a glimpse of it."



"For God's sake, Doctor, what is it?"



"I can't tell you yet, Major. So far I can tell, it is something new to

science and I am not sure just what it looks like. However, I hope to be

able to show it to you shortly. Is there a telegraph office here?"



"No, but we have a Signal Corps detachment with us, and they have a

portable radio set which will put us in touch with the army net."



"Good! Can you place a tent at my disposal?"



"Certainly, Doctor."



"All right, I'll go there, and I would appreciate it if you would send

the radio operator to me. I want to send a message to the Bureau of

Standards to forward me some apparatus which I need."



"I'll attend to it, Doctor. Have you any special advice to give me about

the guarding?"



"Yes. Have you, or can you get, any live stock?"



"Live stock?"



"Yes. Cattle preferred, although hogs or sheep will do at a pinch. Sheep

will do quite well."



"I'll see what I can do, Doctor."



"Get them by all means, if it is possible to do so. Don't worry about

paying for them: secret service funds are not subject to the same audit

that army funds get. If you can locate them, drive a couple of cattle or

half a dozen sheep well into the cave and tether them there. If you

don't get them, have your sentries posted well away from the cave mouth,

and if any disturbance occurs during the night, tell them to break and

run. I hope it won't come out, but I can't tell."



       *       *       *       *       *

though struck by a thunderbolt, while a horrible smell of musk and

burned flesh filled the air.



"After it! Quick!" cried the doctor as he sprang forward.



       *       *       *       *       *



Before he could reach the prostrate creature it moved and then, slowly

at first, but with rapidly gaining speed, it slithered over the floor in

retreat. Dr. Bird's hand swung through an arc, and there was a deafening

crash as a hand-grenade exploded on the back of the fleeing monster.



An unearthly scream came from the creature, and its motion changed from

a steady forward glide to a series of convulsive jerks. Leffingwell and

Carnes threw grenades, but they went wide of their mark, and the monster

began to again increase its speed. Another volley of grenades was thrown

and one hit scored, which slowed the monster somewhat but did not arrest

the steady forward movement.



"Any more bombs?" demanded the doctor.



"Damn!" he cried as he received negative answers. "The current wasn't

strong enough. It's going to get away."



Carnes jerked his automatic from under his armpit and poured a stream of

bullets into the fleeing monster. Slower and slower the motion of the

creature became, and its movements again became jerky and convulsive.



"Keep it in sight!" cried the doctor. "We may get it yet!"



Cautiously the three men followed the retreating horror, Leffingwell

pushing before him the platform holding the ultra-violet ray apparatus.

The chase led them over familiar ground.



"There is the crack!" cried the lieutenant.



"Too late!" replied the doctor.



He rushed forward and seized the lower limb of the monster and tried

with all his strength to arrest its flight, but despite all that he

could do it slid sideways through the crack in the wall and disappeared.

A final backward kick of its leg threw the doctor twenty feet against

the far wall of the cave.

charts of the human body with the arterial system outlined. But when he

dressed again and put on his jaunty captain's uniform, only the

electrode clamped to his head and the thin wires dangling from it in the

back were visible to disclose that there was anything unusual about him.



He said smilingly, "Don't stare at me like that."



I took a grip on myself. This thing was frightening, now that I actually

was embarked on it. Derek had explained to me briefly the workings of

his apparatus. A vibratory electronic current, for which as yet he had

no name, was stored in the small battery. He had said:



"There's nothing incomprehensible about this, Charlie. It's merely a

changing of the vibration rate of the basic substance out of which our

bodies are made. Vibration is the governing factor of all states of

matter. In its essence what we call substance is wholly intangible. That

is already proven. A vortex! A whirlpool of nothingness! It creates a

pseudo-substance which is the only material in the universe. And from

this, by vibration, is built the complicated structure of things as we

see and feel them to be, all dependent upon vibration. Everything is

altered, directly as the vibratory rate is changed. From the most

tenuous gas, to fluids to solids--throughout all the different states of

matter the only fundamental difference is the rate of vibration."



       *       *       *       *       *



I understood the basic principle of this that he was explaining--that

now when this electronic current which he had captured and controlled

was applied to our physical body, the vibration rate of every smallest

and most minute particle of our physical being was altered. There is so

little in the vast scale of natural phenomena of which our human senses

are cognisant! Our eyes see the colors of the spectrum, from red to

violet. But a vast invisible world of color lies below the red of the

rainbow! Physicists call it the infra-red. And beyond the violet,

sullenly hostile.



We came to an open cart. It stood by the roadside. An ox with shaggy

coat and spreading horns was fastened to the fence. It was a small cart

with small rollers like wheels. Seats were in it and a vivid canopy over

it. We climbed in and rumbled away.



       *       *       *       *       *



And this starlit road in our own world was Broadway! We were presently

passing close to the river's edge. This quiet, peaceful, starlit river!

Why, in our world it was massed with docks! Great ocean liners, huge

funneled, with storied decks lay here! Under this river, tunnels with

endless passing vehicles! Tubes, with speeding trains crowded with

people!



The reality here was so different! Behind us what seemed an upper city

was strung along the river. Ahead of us also there were streets and

houses, the city of the workers. A bell was tolling. Along all the roads

now we could see the moving yellow spots of lights on the holiday carts

headed for the festival. And there were spots of yellow torchlight from

boats on the river.



We soon were entering the city streets. Narrow dirt streets they were,

with primitive shacks to the sides. Women came to the doorways to stare

at our little cart rumbling hastily past. I was conscious of my crimson

cloak, and conscious of the sullen glances of hate which were flung at

it from every side, here in this squalid, forlorn section where the

workers lived.



Along every street now the carts were passing, converging to the south.

They were filled, most of them, with young men and girls, all in gaudy

costumes. Some of them, like ourselves, were shrouded in crimson cloaks.

The carts occasionally were piled with flowers. As one larger than us,

and moving faster rumbled by, a girl in it stood up and pelted me with

blossoms. She wore a crimson robe, but it had fallen from her shoulders.




Hope gasped, "This way."



She led us back into the pavilion. We clambered over its broken seats,

past its grewsome huddled figures. Some were still moving.... We went to

a small door under the platform. A dim room was here, deserted now.

Against the wall was a large wardrobe closet; stage costumes were

hanging in it. The closet was fully twenty feet deep. We pushed our way

through the hanging garments. Hope fumbled at the blank board wall in

the rear. Her groping fingers found a secret panel. A door swung aside

and a rush of dank cool air came at us. The dark outlines of a tunnel

stretched ahead.



"In, Charlie!"



I crouched and stepped through the door. Hope closed it behind us. The

tunnel passage was black, but soon we began to see its vague outlines.

Derek, sword in hand, led us. I clutched my dirk. We went perhaps five

hundred feet. Down at first, then up again. I figured we were under the

palace gardens now, as the tunnel was winding to the left. There were

occasional small lights.



Derek whispered to Hope, "The toilers don't know of this?"



"No."



"Where does it bring us out?" I whispered.



"Into the lower floor of the castle. The king must have gone this way.

There might be a guard, Derek. What will you do?"



He laughed. "I can handle this mob. Disperse it! You'll see! And handle

the king." He laughed again grimly. "There is no Blanca to choose now."



The tunnel went round a sharp angle and began steeply ascending. Derek

stopped.



"How much further, Hope?"



"Not far," she whispered.



We crept forward. The tunnel was more like a small corridor now. Beyond

Derek's crouching figure, in the dimness I could see a doorway. Derek

turned and gestured to us to keep back. A palace guard was standing

there. His pike went up.



"Who are you?"



"A friend."



But the man lunged with his pike. Derek leaped aside. His sword flashed;


And held in front of him the slender figure of a girl. Hope! He clutched

her, his thick arm encircling her breast. With sinking heart I realized

what had happened. Hope had moved away from me. Every one in the room

had been intent upon Derek. Rohbar had come quietly in, after murdering

the king, had seized Hope, stifled her outcry, and had taken her up into

the tower.



And I had promised Derek that I would shield this girl from harm! The

horror of it--the self-condemnation of it--swept me, froze me to

numbness. I could not think; I could only stand and stare. Rohbar held

Hope like a shield before him. The low railing hardly reached her knees.

A sheer drop to the garden beneath. He held her tightly, and in his free

hand I saw his dirk come up menacingly against her white throat. His

voice called:



"Silent, down there! Alexandre, you traitor! Silence!"



Derek stared up. The triumph faded from him. He stared, stricken. The

crowd stared. The soldiers on the lower platform ceased their shouting

and gazed up at these new actors, come so unexpectedly upon the stage.

Again Rohbar called, to the guards this time:



"I represent your King Leonto. This Alexandre is a traitor to us all.

And he cannot harm me! I defy him. Look at him! I defy him to use his

evil weapon upon me!"



Derek was silent. A single adverse move and Rohbar's knife would stab

into Hope's throat. Derek's ray was powerless. A flash from it would

have killed Hope, not Rohbar.



The king's soldiers saw Derek's indecision. One of them shouted, "He

cannot harm us! Look, he is frightened!"



The crowd recognized Hope. They began calling her name. And calling,

"Master Rohbar, do not harm our Hope!"



"I will not harm her! Not if you do what I tell you! Leave the

garden--go quietly! I will deal with this traitor!"



He added to the guards, "Go up and seize him! He cannot hurt you!

Traitor! Seize him! If he does not yield--if any of this crowd attacks

you--then I will kill Hope."



"Certainly," stammered Quest.



Stunned by the swiftness of the transaction, he sat staring at the money

that lay untouched before him.



To accept it would be like signing an unread contract. But he had asked

for it; to refuse it was impossible. Even to delay about picking it up

might arouse Clason's suspicion. Already the latter had turned away and

was opening the door of a steel cabinet. Quest had one second in which

to reach a decision.... He crammed the currency into his pocket.



       *       *       *       *       *



With delicate care Clason set two objects on the table. One looked to

Quest like a miniature broadcasting tower or a mooring mast for lighter

than air craft. The other was a circular vat of some black material,

probably carbon. Within it a series of concentric tissues were suspended

from metal rings, and in a trough outside ranged four stoppered flasks

containing liquids of as many different colors.



"Look at these models carefully," said Clason. "They represent two of

the most remarkable discoveries of all time. The one on your left is the

most _de_structive weapon known to man. The other I consider the most

_con_structive discovery in the history of science. It may even lead to

an understanding of the nature of life, and of the future of the spirit

after death.



"Both of these were developed by my brother Philip and me together--but

we have disagreed about the use to which they shall be put.



"Philip"--the inventor dropped his voice to a whisper--"wants to sell

the secret of the Death Projector--the tower, there--as an instrument of

war. If I should permit him to do that, it might lead to the destruction

of whole nations!"



"How?" demanded Quest "I've heard of a device called the Death Ray. Is

this it?"



"No, no," said Clason contemptuously. "Even in a perfected state the Ray

would be a child's toy compared to the Projector. This is based on our

On the top landing Burke, the leader, paused to count the doors from

front to rear.



"This is it," he whispered to the bull-necked fellow just behind him.



The other nodded, and crouched back against the opposite wall while his

companions placed themselves in position to cross-fire into the room the

moment the door gave way.



       *       *       *       *       *



Quest longed for the power to kick his hypocrite of a master as he still

held back, cowering on the stairs, playing his fake to the limit. Then

the door flew in with a splintering shriek under the charge of the human

battering ram, and across it hurtled the other two detectives in a cloud

of ancient dust.



"Here he is!" someone shouted.



"Phil! Phil!" Keane Clason's voice fairly quavered with sham emotion as

he ran into the room and threw himself at a man tightly bound to an

upholstered chair, which in turn was wedged in among other articles of

stored furniture.



But Philip was too securely gagged to reply, and as Burke slashed the

ropes from across his chest he dropped forward in a state of collapse.

Stretched on a couch, he soon gave signs of response as a brisk massage

began to restore the circulation to his cramped limbs. Suddenly he sat

up and thrust his rescuers aside.



"What time is it?" he demanded with an air of alarm.



"One o'clock," replied Keane before anyone else could answer, patting

his brother affectionately on the shoulder while within him Quest

writhed with indignation. "By Jove! Phil, it's wonderful that we got to

you in time. Really, how--you're not injured?"



"No," grunted Philip, "just lamed up. I'll be as fit as ever by

to-morrow."



"If you feel equal to it," suggested Burke, "I wish you'd tell me

briefly how you arrived here. Do you know the motive behind this affair?

Did you recognize any of the body-snatchers?"



Frantically Quest strove to answer him, to explain his utter subjection,

as Agent, to say that if he had possessed the will to oppose or trick

him he would have turned him over to the police, or might even have

killed him, at the very outset. But in his frenzy, Keane had so

tightened his control that Quest was speechless. Now he tried to

substitute gesture for words, but Philip was rooted to the spot like a

statue; even his hands were immovable.



He might have remained in this state indefinitely had not Keane's fears

withdrawn his mind from his immediate surroundings. Momentarily he

forgot Quest, Philip--everything but himself and his predicament. And in

the instant that his vigilance relaxed, Quest's enslaved will

experienced a sudden lease of strength and hope. Independently of his

Control, he found that he could move Philip's hand, could take a

faltering step.



But now, what to do? How might he fan this feeble spark of volition to

sufficient strength for decisive resistance? The idea came to him: if

only he could place distance between himself and Keane, perhaps with one

titanic effort he might launch himself against the Master Will, take him

by surprise, crush him down, and reverse him to the status of Agent

instead of Control.



With infinite effort Quest forced Philip's body step by step across the

room. He must reach that window, get a signal of distress to someone in

the street.



But Keane began to sense a mutiny. He followed. He crossed the floor

with slinking, tigerish steps and snaking body. His wet lips writhed

back over his teeth, and his contorted features wove the leer of the

abyss. Now as his Control drew physically near, Quest felt his mite of

strength ebbing fast. Slowly Keane reached up with his clawed fingers

and grasped his Agent by the arm.



"Remember!" he hissed, "if these deaths are traced to us, you break

down--you confess--you take the blame--you paint me lily white--you

describe the cowardly means by which you moulded me to your will--you

plead only for a quick trial and the full penalty of the law. You

"About ten years," I answered.



"What was he trying to invent?"



"I don't know," I replied.



"And yet you had his confidence in other matters?"



"But what has all this to do with finding out what has become of my

friend?" I blurted out. "Perhaps every moment counts."



"A lot." The chief eyed me in a way I did not like. "Solely because your

friend has not been seen by his servants for nearly twenty-four hours,

merely because you saw what you believe to be his diamond in some kind

of a glass compartment in his laboratory, you come here as distraught as

a man who has something terrible on his mind. Why?"



"I can't say." I shifted uneasily under that direct stare. "Somehow I

_feel_ that something dreadful has happened to my friend."



"We do not go by _feelings_." The chief got to his feet. "But you have

told me enough to warrant action. I want you to guide me and a couple of

men to this house. Please wait here until I return." He left the room.



Sitting there awaiting his return, I tried to ponder the matter

reasonably. After all, perhaps the chief was right. Merely because the

professor had been absent for a few hours and I had seen what I thought

to be his diamond in the laboratory, I had worked myself into a perfect

fever of anxiety. I almost smiled to myself. In that businesslike office

the whole affair did seem absurd. After all the professor did not have

to answer to his servants for his actions.



Heavy footsteps, announcing the chief's return, caused me to rise to my

feet. A few minutes later, in company with the three officers, I was

driving again towards The Grange.



       *       *       *       *       *



We made the return journey in almost complete silence. Occasionally the

chief would shoot a question at me; but, the night air cooling my

it away.



"Th' infantry always gets th' dirty end of the stick," he said gloomily.

"I'm goin' to roll me a whole one, pre-war, an' smoke it, presently."



"Hell yes," said Coffee. He examined his gas-mask from force of habit

before stepping out into the fog once more, then contemptuously threw it

aside. "Gas-masks, hell! Ain't worth havin'. Come on."



Corporal Wallis followed as he emerged from the little round cone of

the pill-box.



The gray mist that was fog-gas hung over everything. There was a

definite breeze blowing, but the mist was so dense that it did not seem

to move. It was far enough from the fog-flares for the last least trace

of striation to have vanished. Fifteen miles to the north the fog-flares

were placed, ranged by hundreds and by thousands, burning one after

another as the fog service set them off, and sending out their

incredible masses of thick gray vapor in long threads that spread out

before the wind, coalesced, and made a smoke-screen to which the puny

efforts of the last war--the war that was to make the world safe for

democracy--were as nothing.



Here, fifteen miles down wind from the flares, it was possible to see

clearly in a circle approximately five feet in diameter. At the edge of

that circle outlines began to blur. At ten feet all shapes were the

faintest of bulks, the dimmest of outlines. At fifteen feet all was

invisible, hidden behind a screen of mist.



"Cast around," said Coffee gloomily. "Maybe we'll find a shell, or

tracks of a tank or somethin' that chucked the gas here."



       *       *       *       *       *



It was rather ludicrous to go searching for anything in that mass of

vapor. At three yards distance they could make each other out as dim

outlines, no more. But it did not even occur to them to deplore the

mist. The war which had already been christened, by the politicians at

had shown before. He knew the moves he had to make in any of three

eventualities. He watched the board to make sure he would not have to

make those moves before he was ready. His whole air was that of waiting:

the commander-in-chief of the army of the United States, waiting to hear

what he would be told by two strayed infantrymen, lost in the fog that

covered a battlefield.



       *       *       *       *       *



The fog was neither more dense nor any lighter where Corporal Wallis

paused to roll his pre-war cigarette. The tobacco came from the gassed

machine-gunner in the pill-box a few yards off. Sergeant Coffee, three

yards distant, was a blurred figure. Corporal Wallis put his cigarette

into his mouth, struck his match, and puffed delicately.



"Ah!" said Corporal Wallis, and cheered considerably. He thought he saw

Sergeant Coffee moving toward him and ungenerously hid his cigarette's

glow.



Overhead, a machine-gun suddenly burst into a rattling roar, the sound

sweeping above them with incredible speed. Another gun answered it.

Abruptly, the whole sky above them was an inferno of such tearing noises

and immediately after they began a multitudinous bellowing set up.

Airplanes on patrol ordinarily kept their engines muffled, in hopes of

locating a tank below them by its noise. But in actual fighting there

was too much power to be gained by cutting out the muffler for any minor

motive to take effect. A hundred aircraft above the heads of the two

strayed infantrymen were fighting madly about five helicopters. Two

hundred yards away, one fell to the earth with a crash, and immediately

afterward there was a hollow boom. For an instant even the mist was

tinged with yellow from the exploded gasoline tank. But the roaring

above continued--not mounting, as in a battle between opposing patrols

of fighting planes, when each side finds height a decisive advantage,

but keeping nearly to the same level, little above the bank of cloud.




"Supply tanks, machine-shop tanks, ground forces of the air service,

concentrate here!" His finger rested on a spot in the middle of the dead

area. "Reserve tanks take position behind them. Draw off every tank

we've got--take 'em out of action!--and mass them in front, on a line

with our former first line of outposts. Every airplane and helicopter

take the air and engage in general combat with the enemy, wherever the

enemy may be found and in whatever force. And our tanks move straight

through here!"



Orders were snapping into telephone transmitters. The commands had been

relayed before their import was fully realized. Then there was a gasp.



"General!" cried the chief of staff. "If the enemy is massed there,

he'll destroy our forces in detail as they take position!"



"He isn't massed there," said the general, his eyes blazing. "The

infantrymen who were gassing our listening-posts were given no

recognition signals for their tanks. Sergeant Coffee's prisoner has his

gas-mask broken and is in deadly fear. The enemy commander is foolish in

many ways, perhaps, but not foolish enough to break down morale by

refusing recognition signals to his own men who will need them. And look

at the beautiful plan he's got."



       *       *       *       *       *



He sketched half a dozen lines with his fingers, moving them in

lightning gestures as his orders took effect.



"His main force is here, behind those skirmishes that look like a feint.

As fast as we reinforce our skirmishing-line, he reinforces his--just

enough to drive our tanks back slowly. It looks like a strong feint, but

it's a trap! This dead space is empty. He thinks we are concentrating to

face it. When he is sure of it--his helicopters will sweep across any

minute, now, to see--he'll throw his whole force on our front line.

It'll crumple up. His whole fighting force will smash through to take

us, facing the dead space, in the rear! With twice our numbers, he'll

humming and saw nothing? With the purely perfunctory recitals of the

doctor and the constabulary this court and the jury have heard all there

is to hear. We have no more witnesses. That is all there is.



"The jury will have to decide from the evidence whether this case is

accident or murder. The doctor and two experts have reported that the

wound appeared to have been made by some blunt instrument, swung

powerfully. The skull under the wound and back of the ear was simply

crushed. Death was instantaneous. It all happened in broad daylight."



After an hour's deliberation the jury decided the savant came to his

death in his laboratory from a blow on the skull received in some manner

unknown.



The crowd filed out, spiritedly discussing the unusual crime. In the

crowd was Perkins Ferguson, known as "Old Perk," head of the Schefert

Engineering Corporation, who paid royalty on some of the Darrow patents.

With him was Damon Farnsworth, his first vice-president.



"Well, what do you think of it?" asked Farnsworth, biting into a black

cigar.



"Damned weird, isn't it?" replied "Old Perk." "I have my own theory,

however," he added, "but I am going to know a whole lot more about this

case before I venture it." The pair climbed into Ferguson's car

discussing the Darrow death case with furrowed brows.



       *       *       *       *       *



What might be termed an extraordinary meeting of the directors of the

Schefert Engineering Corporation, was held a few days later in a big

building in the financial district.



The rich furnishings of the directors' room indicated, better than

Bradstreet's, the great wealth of the corporation. Uniformed pages stood

at attention at each end of the long, mahogany table at which were

seated the fourteen directors of the company. All were men of wealth,

standing and engineering knowledge. The departed Darrow often had been

summoned to such meetings, and at this one there was a hush because of

"Go to the bank and get $200,000 in fifties and one hundreds," he

commanded.



When the clerk returned with the money he laid the package on his desk

and left the desk open. "This might appear cowardly, but it will give us

time," he said. Lees did not offer an opinion.



Ferguson drew a personal note for $200,000 and sent it to the Schefert

Corporation's attorneys. This amount represented a large part of

Ferguson's personal assets, not involved with any company with which he

was connected. He told Lees to go about his further investigations. Then

he left the office and started for his home. "I'll bank my life Lees

will have those crooks lined up within a week," he assured himself as he

lolled in his auto, bound homeward. But his voice sounded hollow, and

the blood still pounded at his temples.



       *       *       *       *       *



Reaching home, he found a call from the western plant, at Chicago. He

phoned the superintendent with a foreboding that all was not well.



"This you, Perk?" sounded the voice on the wire.



"Yes, what's up?"



"I had not intended bothering you with this, but in the light of all

that has happened I guess you had better know that one of our engineers

went stark mad out here about three weeks ago. He was a very brainy man

but his reason snapped. He first appeared queer when he began talking of

anarchy and cursing capitalists. Then one afternoon he struck a shop

foreman down with a heavy wrench and rushed out of the plant. We have

not seen him since. The police have been looking for him, but he is

still at large."



"That explains a lot of things," said "Old Perk." "Tell the police to

keep after him. We'll look for him here. File me a complete detailed

report of the incident by telegraph," he instructed. Then he asked:



"How is the foreman? Badly hurt?"

