

As she put it herself during the hearing, she was always in hot water.



       *       *       *       *       *



The four teen-agers--one girl, three boys--weren't allowed in the

bar, so they went down the street to a joint where there were a soda

fountain, booths and a jukebox. They sat in a booth and a waitress came

to take the orders: three hot dogs and three cokes.



"What about you, dear?"



"Just a glass of water." The waitress started to leave. "No,

wait--gimme a white on rye, too."



The waitress left, then came back again. "What was that you wanted,

dear? Some kind of rye-bread sandwich?"



"Changed my mind. Make it a buttered pecan, but tell 'em to go easy

on the butter. And I don't want no French dressing. Make it on whole

wheat."



       *       *       *       *       *



The waitress looked uncertain. "You mean a _nut_ sandwich?"



"Yeah, only malted. With lettuce and chocolate sprinkles."



"Who you kiddin'?" the waitress said, and turned to go.



"No, hold it. Tell Joe to please scramble them on both sides."



"What you _talkin'_ about?" the waitress said. "We ain't got no one

here called Joe."



"So okay, Joseph, then. Tell him just a boiled egg sunny side up."



The waitress left, frowning.



"Our Miss Framis," one of the boys said, meaning the girl, and the

others smiled. They looked as though they were sneering at the same

time and hoped they would be taken for juvenile delinquents.



There were two very odd-looking men in the booth opposite and they

were listening to the conversation. Their oddness lay in an atmosphere

rather than in any physical abnormality. The girl noticed them and


    Q. The car?



    A. Yes, their hot-rod. When we got outside, they acted the way

    teen-agers do and went too fast. They were sore at those

    spies--they took it out on the car, so it went off the road. It

    turned over three times and we were all killed.



    Q. They were not spies. They were acting on their own.



    A. _I_ didn't know that. I just knew something was funny. Anyway,

    how can you say that? They're a waste. And it would have been part

    of you, just as I am. It was more of a waste if I hadn't been

    split. The other part was only about eleven years old and I had to

    wait another six years to--



    Q. It is your own fault if you were split. You cannot blame us.

    This has happened before--you have aimed badly and arrived wrong.

    Don't forget about the help.



    A. Well, in this case it's a lucky thing I did; otherwise the whole

    thing would have been wasted. And the kelp--that was dreadfully

    dull. I wanted to try a really primitive form, but not _that_

    primitive. Then I got washed up and it led to the cat. After

    they got the iodine out of the kelp, I was suddenly a cat.



    Q. This has not been reported.



    A. I'm reporting it now. It wasn't dull in the least, but they were

    very superstitious about cats in those days, and they decided I was

    possessed.



    Q. They saw through you?



    A. Oh, yes. People usually do.


"Yes," said the other man.



"Nonsense," said the woman. She went back to the cave and the young man

put the end of his spear into the fire and tried to scrape the side of

the pot with the flint head, but the flint was cold and it cracked. He

pulled it back and was looking angrily at it when she came out again

and sat on the ground. She had an armful of roots which she began to

scrape with a sharp stone. "The spearhead is made of the wrong sort

of stone," she said, without looking up. "That is why it broke in the

fire."



"It's made of the _right_ kind!" the young man shouted. "All spearheads

are made of that kind! They always have been and they always will be!

How did _you_ know it broke in the fire? You weren't looking."



"I heard it make the sound it makes when the fire breaks it."



The young man glowered and pushed his under lip out. "This kind of

stone was put in the cave for us to make knives and spears. And it

makes a very sharp edge when you know how to form it."



"No sharper than this knife," she said, holding up the stone in her

hand. "This doesn't break so easily."



The young man took it and examined it carefully. "How do you strike

it to make it this shape?" he said, and then, grudgingly, "It is very

smooth--a very good shape."



"You don't strike it," she said, taking it back and going on scraping

the roots. "You rub it on another stone--first on the kind that has the

bright sparkles in it, and then under water on the flat gray kind. It's

much better than your knives and the fire doesn't break it so easily."



       *       *       *       *       *



She finished with the roots and put them in the pot with the meat.



"Where do you find such big roots?" the young man asked his brother.


and stirred the pot with a stick. "I wish you would try to get the

young animals," she said. "You always bring home the biggest ones and

they are hard to chew unless I cook the meat all day."



"My father said that if you wish to be brave, powerful and swift, you

must eat only the animals that are brave, powerful and swift," said

the young man obstinately.



"Didn't he eat roots, too?"



"Yes."



"Well, then."



The young man threw the scraping-stone hard against the side of the

cave opening and split it in two. "Roots are not animals!"



       *       *       *       *       *



The young woman picked up the pieces and said, "I think I can make a

small scraper out of the big piece and a throwing tip out of the little

one, but this is a foolish way to get little stones. There are more

little ones than big ones."



"Show him your bent stick with the animal sinew," said her mate. "She

has a way of throwing very small spears with a bent stick," he said to

his brother. He had a dim feeling that there should be peace between

the other two, since they were near his cave, but he was scarcely aware

of the feeling.



The young woman looked pleased and went into the cave and brought back

a stick of springy wood with a thong attached to one end, and a few

dried reeds.



"See," she said, and took a dried reed which had a small sharp stone

stuck in the end of it. Then she bent the stick and strung the sinew

from end to end. The younger man had his first view of a bow and arrow.

"This was the way my mother showed me to throw little spears."



She fitted the arrow into the bow and, pulling it back, shot it at a

pine tree on the other side of the fire. The bowstring twanged and the

    things. You say I understand understanding. I suppose that makes

    me some kind of epistemologist: the father confessor of the

    inscrutable.



    Q. Wouldn't it be mother confessor?



    A. Not with them; they don't like women to be priests. They can be

    holy, but they don't like women to tell them what to do. It's

    called nagging. They get especially angry if the woman is right.



    Q. Hmm. Now you say that we criticize you. You surely are not going

    to claim to be above criticism _here_, are you?



    A. Oh, no. I'm beneath it.



    Q. Then why do you resent it?



    A. Because it doesn't apply. If a mother is not a fool, she will

    correct her child, but she won't blame it. You can't go looking for

    good and evil motives in everything that happens. Does a stone have

    a motive when it falls to the ground?



    Q. If this is the way you always talked, I'm not surprised you

    angered them.



    A. I am sorry.



    Q. You turn everything around that's said to you.



    A. I will try not to. It's like the bishop--he complained about the

    same thing, and I was only trying to--



    Q. What bishop?



    A. I forgot his name. He was the thin one; he was much cleverer

    than the others. He gave me an impossible choice, so I chose to

    make another start.



    Q. You mean you got yourself burned again?



    A. Yes! They did it to all their best people. Both sides did. I


the surly farmers for "contributions." Since he was here to collect

back-taxes, the inhabitants would not take kindly to feeding the

collectors.



The village had a stockade of undressed logs and wide gates at either

end. These were surmounted by arched wooden structures that were

supposed to serve as watch-towers, but beyond spears and knives for

hunting and the necessary farming implements, the villagers were not

allowed to carry weapons of any kind. The stockade was not big enough

to enclose all the houses, and the majority of these were on the

outside and huddled against the walls.



The small body of Roman troops--barely a _manipulus_--were not

surprised to notice that all the windows and booths had been

shuttered, and in the exact center of the village, the local chieftain

and heads of families were gathered in a respectful and anxious

group. It annoyed the captain that it was impossible to make an

unexpected arrival anywhere in Britain; news traveled faster than Roman

foot-soldiers.



"Hail Caesar!" said the captain, putting his arm up, the palm of his

hand facing forward.



"Hail Caesar!" said the villagers.



"We come for the taxes which were not paid last year."



The villagers shook their heads and made regretful sounds.



"Nor the year before, nor the year before that. Which is your headman?

I shall require food for my men at once--they are tired after a day's

march."



A gray-bearded, very tall man stood forward. "The food will be ready at

once, noble decemvir, and I hope you will honor me with your presence

for dinner."



"Thank you very much," said the captain, "but I prefer to stay with my

men until I see them taken care of. And I am not a decemvir. My rank is

captain--Caesar's captain."



The bearded man bowed and said, "Then, after the arrangements have been

made, Captain, will you not take a cup of wine?"



"Don't press him, Grandfather," a voice said from above them, and,

looking up, the captain saw a girl's face at a second-story window. She

had very dark skin, red hair and blue eyes. "If he's been walking all

"The cook's mother is a Pict," she replied.



"Well, she'd better not come _here_!" said the headman. "We want no

Celts!"



"But, Grandfather, we _are_ Celts!"



"No, girl, we are Romans," he answered, looking sideways at the captain.



The captain nodded. "That is true. All members of the Empire are

Romans. Not citizens, perhaps, but Romans just the same, and all live

by Caesar's law."



"But suppose people don't want to live by his law?" said the girl.



The two lieutenants looked shocked, but the captain smiled. "That would

be most foolish and uncivilized of them. Don't you think it's better

for the whole world to live as members of one community and cease all

this useless warfare?"



"It seems to me," the girl said, "that warfare is the result of

somebody trying to take somebody else's land and subject him to a law

that is alien to him."



       *       *       *       *       *



The captain raised his eyebrows and put his head to one side

quizzically. The headman coughed and attempted to change the subject.

"The taxes, Captain," he said, "are very much on my mind...."



"And on mine," the captain said. The two lieutenants tried to look

businesslike, but they looked more as if they were falling asleep.



"And I hope I may say that this time we will have them ready for you,"

said the headman.



"I hope so, too," said the captain.



"But there are other levies that have not been made, which we had

rather expected to be made...."



"Other levies?" The captain held out his cup and the girl poured more

wine into it.



"I refer to troops, Captain," the headman said. "You levy no troops

from us up here."



"You put me in rather an embarrassing position," the captain said. "You

must realize that while I make no comparison to yourself, there are




"You are mad," her grandfather said. "Under Roman rule, we are safe.

What can we expect from these Pictish barbarians?" He looked at her as

though she were some new kind of snake.



"I should rather be occasionally robbed by my cousins than taxed to

death by strangers," she said, her dark face flushed.



"But the Romans are civilized!" said her grandfather.



"Their civilization stands on slavery," she replied. "I'd rather be a

free barbarian. The Romans are doomed."



"This is revolt!" the headman said. "In the name of freedom, you

deliver us into the hands of the Picts--you are a traitor to your own

people!"



"The Picts won't stay," she said. "They never do; they hate farming.

What does it matter if they burn the village and steal some of the farm

animals? It will come to less than what you would have to pay in taxes

to Caesar."



"Caesar's men will return," said her grandfather, "and we shall have

to pay ten times over. And if the Picts kill the captain, the Romans

will have my life for it! You are a traitor! Who was with you in this

infernal plot?"



       *       *       *       *       *



    Q. Why didn't you tell them? Why are you always so stubborn? You

    might have stayed on and found out many useful things.



    A. There would have been nothing useful to find out. Men who submit

    to autocracy cease to be a living, growing organism. Look at

    Egypt--it stayed that way almost uninterruptedly for four thousand

    years. However, I did find out one very surprising thing.



    Q. I'm glad to hear it. What was that?



    A. My grandfather was a Druid! I thought all that was dead and gone

    Saxons until long afterward--my last trip but two, in fact. I was

    at a school in England....



       *       *       *       *       *



The headmistress of St Agatha's prided herself on being fair. Her

way of being fair was to avoid favoritism by being equally unfair to

all the girls and to those of the assistant teachers who would stand

for it. Some of them didn't, and they usually left after their first

term, as the headmistress didn't believe in contracts. Besides, at

the beginning of the twentieth century, contracts for teachers were a

novelty.



The result of this policy was a rapid turnover in the young and

intelligent teachers, and a small permanent staff of compliant sheep.

That St. Agatha's had any scholastic standing was due to the fact that

Miss Wakefield had taken honors at Girton, and the school's social

standing was due to her being the cousin of a Peer of the Realm. The

girls were fed almost enough, the school uniform was expensive, and

nobody had much free time. French was well taught--by Miss Wakefield

herself--and so was Latin, but games were also stressed. The school

was run on what Miss Wakefield called the Honor System, which had the

effect of dividing the pupils into tale-bearers and secret rebels.



On a raw November afternoon, Miss Wakefield sent a prefect for Sarah

Stone, who was one of the new girls. "Tell her to come straight to my

office. She can have her shower later," she said, and Sarah arrived in

the jersey and serge skirt she had been wearing on the hockey field.

Her bare knees were blue and her nose was running. She stood waiting

while the headmistress looked with prominent eyes at some papers on her

desk. Sarah could see that they were examination papers and one of them

was in her own handwriting.



Without looking up, Miss Wakefield said, "I hear that your mother is in

trouble with the police."




"Then it would appear that she copied from you."



"That's a beastly thing to say! It was a coincidence! She's not a

cheat!"



The headmistress felt on secure ground: the child was losing her

temper. It was Miss Wakefield's favorite stratagem to make people lose

their tempers--that is, if they were children or underlings.



"Blow your nose, Stone," she said, and then, seeing that Sarah had no

handkerchief, she gave her her own, with a look of distaste. "I think

perhaps you might do better at some other school."



"So do I, Miss Wakefield," Sarah said. "Mother wanted to get me into

Mr. Russell's school, but it was full up."



"_Bertrand_ Russell?"



Sarah nodded, blowing her nose again. She was shivering.



"_Well!_" said Miss Wakefield. "I never heard the like! He's an

Atheist! Why, he believes in _Free Love_!"



"I don't know what he believes," Sarah said. "I know he was awfully

nice when he came to tea. He said I had some kind of a guiding somebody

standing over me. He said he would like awfully to have me at his

school, but it was full up. I know one of the boys there and he says

it's simply ripping."



"_Well!_ Of course, if your mother thinks of us as Second Best....

Perhaps Mr. Russell believes it is all right to cheat in examinations,

but we have a Tradition at St. Agatha's." She rang a bell on her desk

and a scrawny little housemaid came in. "Send one of the girls for

Angela Harvey," Miss Wakefield said. "Tell her to come here directly."

The little housemaid bobbed respectfully and went out. "Now we shall

see what _she_ has to say," the headmistress said.



"She'll only be frightened and cry," Sarah said, "and she'll say

anything you want her to. She wouldn't _dare_ cheat in an examination."



"Then you admit that you copied from her?"



"I do not!" Sarah said, her teeth chattering. "I tell you it was

a fluke! Miss Somerville jolly well knows I wouldn't do it!" Miss

Somerville was the new and still enthusiastic math teacher, but her

said. You may go, Harvey."



"You," Sarah said, looking at Miss Wakefield with blazing fury, "are a

coward and a--a _black-mailer_!"



Tiny cracks seemed to appear in the headmistress's porcelain composure.

Angela had not yet left the room and heard Sarah's outburst. She

stopped at the door and turned around with wide eyes.



"Go at once!" cried the headmistress to her, and waited until the door

closed. "You are to be expelled publicly from the school!" she said

to Sarah in a low, unsteady voice. "And first you will be publicly

thrashed!"



Sarah's face was patchy now, red on white, and her skin looked dry as

paper. "If you touch me, I will kill you. I'm not afraid of anyone like

you. I didn't cheat in the exam. I said it to keep you from expelling

Angela, and you knew it all the time. Everything you say is a lie. You

just want to get rid of me because of my mother. You are against votes

for women because you are a liar. You told us in history class about

government by consent, but how can it be when half the population have

nothing to say in the matter? I'm going to pack and leave, and if you

try and stop me, I'll...."



She went fiery red, and then white, and fainted.



The headmistress was breathing hard, and later, when Sarah was taken

to the san, she was frightened. Sarah's temperature was 107 and she

had the most virulent kind of pneumonia the school doctor had yet

come across. He was almost more curious in watching the course of the

disease than he was concerned with the patient, but he did not have

very long to watch it, for Sarah died shortly before sunrise.



       *       *       *       *       *



    Q. As far as one can follow your line of reasoning, you claim that

    the head woman of your school was untruthful, but was against


    Q. Does a stone have a purpose when it falls?



    A. I'm not talking about values. What are the alternatives you

    imply in the decision?



    Q. There are three. We destroy them; we absorb them; we ignore

    them.



    A. I'm afraid they can't be ignored.



    Q. Why not?



    A. It's too late. The Unity should have started ignoring them right

    at the beginning--we are already changed. And if they are absorbed,

    we shall be still more changed.



    Q. _They_ will be changed. The Unity is eternal and--



    A. You ought to talk to a man called Heisenberg. He called it the

    inexactitude principle, but it's the same thing. For example, men

    are always going around asking each other questions; they call it

    taking a poll, only when you try to find out that way what people

    are thinking, you change them. Or anthropology--when you study a

    tribe, you alter its way of life. Furthermore, it alters yours.



    Q. It would appear that you have lost your sense of objectivity.



    A. That's the way my last husband talks. There is no such thing.

    It's a strange fact, but it seems that the mathematicians are the

    only ones who have a glimmering of the truth--they and the

    physicists. I was beginning to think that mankind as a whole was

    progressing quite nicely.



    Q. I thought you said they were. It seems you're never satisfied.



    A. Well, some things improve, but their point of view keeps

    changing with regard to what should and what should not improve.

    Q. But the others--the ones you called the spies?



    A. They weren't there to look at Man, only to watch _me_. They

    weren't even sightseeing--they were slumming. However, I think I

    am ceasing to be the only one. I think you are coming to know

    these things, too.



    Q. Very gratifying. Now, as to the latest trip?



    A. There seems to have been a slip-up....



    Q. _Another_ one?



    A. Different. The ones _I_ made were errors in time; this one is

    not mine, and it's in hyper-time. I was trying to explain it to a

    friend, but he already knew all about it and that led to the

    slip-up. It caused it, yet it came afterward.



    Q. How annoying for you. How did you explain hyper-time?



    A. I said that when an object moves or changes, time is needed as

    one of the coordinates to describe that change. I said that

    consciousness moves _through_ time--from Monday to

    Tuesday--otherwise we would be merely aware of differences without

    experiencing them as change. I said that to describe this motion

    of consciousness along the dimension of time, _another_ coordinate

    is needed: hyper-time.



    Q. And the slip-up--which you claim is not yours?



    A. Is in hyper-time. It is the result of the Unity and Mankind

    affecting one another. You have, through my efforts, examined

    them--and thus changed them. Now they begin to examine you--with

    the result that _you_ change.



    Q. They begin to examine _us_? You must mean they have examined

    _you_.




Phil Kaufman didn't answer. There was a pause and she said, "This

afternoon you're working with the microscope, and last night it was the

telescope. You were in the observatory until dawn."



"How did you find that out?"



"I have my methods, Watson. I don't see how you expect to keep going on

no sleep at all. Russ is worried about you."



"Pro or con?"



"Pro, of course. He likes you very much. In fact, he thinks you are the

best brain on the faculty."



"Coming from the president, that's praise indeed." Phil got up and went

to a desk, where he looked at some notes. "Speaking as my boss's wife,

would you say he was pro or con about this work I'm doing?"



"I would say he can't make it out. Alternating between the Microcosm

and the Macrocosm. Incidentally, why don't they call that thing in

the observatory a macroscope? I don't think Russ is very good at

understanding the unfamiliar. I was telling him about the concept of

hyper-time the other day, and his reaction was one of solicitude--he

got me a drink." Katherine stretched her arms. "What are you doing now?"



"Checking some figures. You know, that was odd, your bringing up the

business of hyper-time. This thing I'm working on seems to involve it."



"Oh?" Katherine put her arms behind her head again. "Tell me something,

Phil--what does he look like?"



"Doctor Russell Farley?"



"Yes. I suppose it's a funny sort of question to ask about one's

husband. How does he look to you?"



"Like the youngest college president in America, I guess. Brawny but

brainy. You make what they call a handsome couple."



"Yes, I was going to ask you what I looked like, only it's a waste of

time. People never tell you."



"I can," Phil said, "but I won't, for fear of giving you a swelled

head."



       *       *       *       *       *



"Aren't you confusing things?" she said. "You're not in the observatory

now, Buster; this is the lab. I thought the red shift was the recession

of the distant galaxies ... whatever 'red' is."



"Quite right, Holmes. However, in this case, it's the recession of

the not-so-distant atoms. They are small-sized solar systems, too,

in a way, and when I say 'red' I mean something I can only infer

mathematically, because I'm not dealing with light in the ordinary

sense."



"You mean they're _receding_?"



"Only in this context," he said. "Motion is length over time; in this

case, it's length over hyper-time, so they're still here in the lab."



"I'm relieved to hear it," she said. "However, I should think they'd be

receding into tomorrow."



"They are, but into yesterday, and new ones from tomorrow are

continually coming in to take their place. It's like Fred Hoyle's

theory of the continuous birth of hydrogen."



"You're making me feel like my poor husband," Katherine said. "I

understand the necessity of hyper-time to describe the motion of

consciousness along time, but what's this got to do with the atoms?"



       *       *       *       *       *



There was a knock at the door and Phil stood up, just as Doctor

Russell Chalmers Farley came in without waiting for an answer. Phil

and Katherine felt faintly embarrassed--there was scarcely any need to

knock on the door to the physics lab; it somehow suggested that the

door should be kept open when entertaining callers.



Doctor Farley was a handsome man of thirty-eight with a blond mustache

that gave him the look of a Kipling colonial officer.



"Ah, there you are, Katherine," he said cheerfully. "Hello, Kaufman.

How's the Research Magnificent?"



"It's beginning to show signs of life," Phil said. "I think I can

detect a sort of fetal pulse."



Doctor Farley blinked his pale eyelashes and smiled. He sat down at the


"'I can see!' he told them. But they were puzzled, for they had brought

no lights.



"'What can you see?' they asked. 'There is nothing to be seen here in

the dark.'



"'I see _black_!' he said. 'In front of my face is blackness--however,

at the back of my head, I'm still blind and I see nothing.'"



Katherine was delighted. "I'm not quite sure I understand."



"Why, to the blind there are no shadows," Farley said. "Another drink?"



"I think it would be lovely," she had said, and since she could see no

shadows, she had begun to fall in love.



Doctor Russell Chalmers Farley looked up at Phil and smiled. It was

a charming smile and it was as genuine as a guaranteed, ten-carat,

real, honest-to-goodness zircon. "As Katherine has probably told you,"

he said, "what you are doing is completely over my bowed head. I am

enormously impressed and at the same time unable to comprehend."



"I find it hard to comprehend, too," Phil Kaufman said. "And I suppose

that's what leads me on."



"Well, the thing is," Farley continued, "Washington seems to have

gotten wind of it, and you know how they are. They don't like things to

be over their heads."



Phil Kaufman looked at him in astonishment and sat on a lab stool.

"I don't understand. How can they possibly be interested in what I'm

doing? It's purely theoretical research."



"Surely you don't deny that Lisa Meitner's researches began by being

theoretical? And look what _they_ led to. The point is, Kaufman, that I

have been informed that we are about to receive a visit from a man from

the A.E.C. He's arriving here sometime this afternoon."



"But that's absurd! I'm not _doing_ anything to atoms. I'm merely

examining them!"



Katherine frowned when he said this. Phil knew better. Worse yet, so

did she.



"When the A.E.C. hears of somebody working in atomic research," Farley

said, "they want to know what's cooking. I hate you to be subjected to

this, but it won't do any harm to be polite to the fellow and let him,



"The atoms and their electrons, he said, were in turn made up of

sub-atoms and were perhaps populated by sentient beings who looked

through their telescopes and counted the atoms in their vicinity, no

doubt arranging them into constellations. You can carry this imaginary

process in both directions and as far as you like, but are we to decide

arbitrarily that it goes on infinitely? Or is it like Einsteinian

space, finite but unbounded?



"I have asked myself this question and I believe the latter statement

to be in a sense correct, but what does it mean? Well, it means

that if you move further and further into larger universes, you

eventually get to where you started. Not that Big is the same thing

as Small, but that from wherever you happen to be, the ones in the

direction--outward--look successively bigger, while the ones in the

other direction--inward--look successively smaller. Now if there were

some kind of super-telescope that could look beyond our universe of

super-atoms, and beyond the next and so on indefinitely, you would find

yourself staring up through a super-microscope at your own eye."



"Get along with you!" Katherine said. "This is the pipe dream to end

all pipe dreams. Tell us more."



       *       *       *       *       *



"Well, I'll revise it to this extent," said Phil. "It wouldn't be your

eye that you'd see, any more than you'd see your own face if you looked

far enough across ordinary intergalactic space. You'd see the back of

your head--or, rather, the other side of the Earth--provided there was

nothing in the way."



"And in this case it would be what?" she asked.



"I don't know," Phil said, looking worried. "What is the equivalent of

the back of your head--looked at along the direction of hyper-time?

Could it be that what you saw would not be from behind, but from ...

inside?"



Katherine's beautiful sightless eyes seemed to be turned inward, and


the door because of long habit, and again sat down on the couch. After

the door closed, he and Phil listened to her sure footsteps going down

the corridor. They looked at one another a little guardedly.



"You know I'm on your side," Farley said when they could no longer hear

Katherine's footsteps. "Surely you know I don't like this any more than

you do, Phil."



"I suppose you don't."



"You won't mind very much if I ask you a favor, will you?" Farley

said. Having asked a rhetorical question, he seemed to be illogically

waiting for an answer. Phil was unaware of the chess game, but wondered

uneasily what was coming.



"Will you please leave her alone?" Farley said.



"I--" Phil started to say, but Farley held his hand up, palm forward.



"My dear chap, you are one of the most sensitive and kind people I

know. But you are a little thoughtless. You imagine that, because

Katherine is blind, you are doing her a favor by--by giving her

companionship. You feel that her interest in the world can be furthered

by your interest in her. This is not the case. I ask you please to

leave us alone."



"Us?"



"Yes. You put me in the embarrassing position of having to say that

we are very well as we are. I know that Katherine is impressed by

your--your mind, and I know that your sympathy is well-intended, but it

is misplaced. She needs no sympathy."



"Why not?"



Doctor Farley spread his hands, a gesture usually meant to substitute

for words. "Do the strong need sympathy?"



"I think so," Phil said.



Doctor Farley smiled. "Well, then, think of _me_ as the strong one--the

one who needs sympathy as the guardian of something precious. Will you

give me your sympathy?" He smiled still.



Phil realized that when the A.E.C. man came--when any pretext presented

itself--Doctor Farley would throw him to the wolves.



"Katherine is not in love with me," Phil said.



"But are you with her?"

She walked past them to the psychiatrical sofa and sat on it without

answering the question. She looked as though her mind was on something

else--and then, suddenly, startled and intent.



_Yes! I am here...._



Neither Phil Kaufman nor Russell Farley heard her--they were intent on

avoiding one another's eyes, but they would not have heard her anyway.



       *       *       *       *       *



    Q. You were right. He knows where the Unity is--if not what it is,

    yet.



    A. Oh, he will.



    Q. Are you so sure? And will you at last admit that we are right?

    _Unification_--it's the only way ... now.



    A. (she has her face toward the electron microscope; her blind eyes

    seem to probe it) One cannot impose it on them. What kind of unity

    can come from imposition?



    Q. And are things to go on as they are?



    A. No, it's too late. Things have already changed....



    Q. The history of Man has been the history of his integration--from

    families to tribes, to communities, to city states, to nations, to

    hemispheres, to--what next? Is it to stop here, and the hemispheres

    to beat each other down to the tribal or family level?



    A. You will be destroyed in the process.



    Q. _We?_ In the process of unification?



    A. Of course.



    Q. And you?



    A. I'm always being destroyed.



    Q. Ridiculous. Unification can scarcely destroy the Unity.




"If you're coming, you'd better straighten your tie," Katherine said.

"It's under your ear, as usual."



Phil reached up absently and pulled at it with one hand. "Sorry."



"You put me in an embarrassing position," Farley said. "I think I had

better say what I have to say now. Better to have it out, before things

go any further."



"Before _what_ things go any further?" Phil asked, with a trace of

belligerence. "Of course, if you don't want me for dinner--"



"Wait!" Katherine said in distress. "This isn't.... But it should

be...." She looked from one to the other and smiled a tentative,

hopeful little smile. "We don't have to go on with this, do we ...

_now_?"



"What do you mean, 'now'?" Farley said, his face becoming red. "I think

it's high time I got this off my chest. Katherine, I don't believe in

letting things drift. I want this out in the open!"



(_Oh, but this wasn't the way things were to be! This is all

wrong--what can have happened?_--There was no answer.)



       *       *       *       *       *



Phil's face was pale and he started for the door. "I guess I'd better

leave you two alone."



"No!" Farley said abruptly. "I want you here! I want you to hear this.

Well, Katherine?" He turned to her again.



"I ... I can't answer you," she said miserably.



"You mean you are in love with him, don't you?" Farley said, with a

kind of angry triumph. "All the time, behind my back, you--"



"Dry up, Farley!" Phil said, coming back from the door. "And stop

acting like a bully!"



"Why, you--"



The telephone rang, and Katherine picked it up.



"It's for you, Russ," she said, and handed it to him.



"Yes?" Farley snapped into it. "Put him on." He listened for a few


