

       *       *       *       *       *









VOL. II, No. 3          CONTENTS           JUNE, 1930





COVER DESIGN                    H. W. WESSOLOWSKI



    _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "The Moon Master."_





OUT OF THE DREADFUL DEPTHS      C. D. WILLARD          293

    _Robert Thorpe Seeks Out the Nameless Horror That Is Sucking All Human

     Life Out of Ships in the South Pacific._





MURDER MADNESS                  MURRAY LEINSTER        310

    _Bell, of the Secret "Trade," Strikes into the South American Jungle to

     Find the Hidden Stronghold of the Master--the Unknown Monster Whose

     Diabolical Poison Swiftly and Surely Is Enslaving the Whole

     Continent._ (Part Two of a Continued Novel.)





THE CAVERN WORLD                JAMES P. OLSEN         340



    _A Great Oil Field Had Gone Dry--and Asher, Trapped Far under the Earth

     Among the Revolting Petrolia, Learns Why._





BRIGANDS OF THE MOON            RAY CUMMINGS           352



    _The Besieged Earth-men Wage Grim, Ultra-scientific War with Martian

     Bandits in a Last Great Struggle for Their Radium-ore--and Their

the bow. May need help. Please stand by."



Captain Brent had left the room. A moment later, and the quiver and

tremble of the _Bennington_ told Thorpe they were running full speed

for the position of the stricken ship.



But: "Twenty-four thirty-five North," he mused, "and less than two

degrees west of where the poor old _Minnie R._ got hers. I wonder ...

I wonder...."



"We will be there in four hours," said Captain Brent on his return.

"Hope she lasts. But what have they struck out there? Derelict

probably, though she should have had Admiral Struthers' warning."



Robert Thorpe made no reply other than: "Wait here a minute, Brent. I

have something to show you."



       *       *       *       *       *



He had not told the officer of his mission nor of his experience, but

he did so now. And he placed before him the wildly improbable

statement of the late Captain Wilkins.



"Something is there," surmised Captain Brent, "just awash,

probably--no superstructure visible. Your _Minnie R._ hit the same

thing."



"Something is there," Thorpe agreed. "I wish I knew what."



"This stuff has got to you, has it?" asked Brent as he returned the

papers of Captain Wilkins. He was quite evidently amused at the

thought.



"You weren't on the ship," said Thorpe, simply. "There was nothing to

see--nothing to tell. But I know...."



He followed Brent to the wireless room.



"Can you get the _Nagasaki_?" Brent asked.



"They know we are coming, sir," said the operator. "We seem to be the

only one anywhere near."



He handed the captain another message. "Something odd about that," he

said.



"_U. S. S. Bennington_," the captain read aloud. "We are still afloat.

On even keel now, but low in water. No water coming in. Engines full

speed ahead, but we make no headway. Apparently aground. _Nagasaki


man in the grasp of flabby lips. And above them a single eye glared

wickedly.



Another vile, twisting arm rose from the afterdeck with a screaming

figure in its grasp and vanished into the water beyond the yacht.

There were others writhing about the decks. Thorpe saw them as he made

his boat fast and clambered aboard.



       *       *       *       *       *



A wave of reeking air enveloped him as he reached the deck; the

nauseous stench from the monster's tentacles was horrible beyond

endurance. He gagged and choked as the stifling breath entered his

lungs.



A huge rope of slippery, throbbing flesh stretched its twisted length

toward the stern. It contracted as he watched into bulging muscular

rings and withdrew from the afterdeck. The deadly end of it stopped in

mid-air not twenty feet from where he stood. The jawlike pincers on it

held the limp form of an officer in its sucking grip, while above, in

a protuberance like a gnarled horn, a great eye glared into Thorpe's

with devilish hatred.



The beak opened sharply to drop its unconscious burden upon the deck,

and the watching man, petrified with horror, saw within the gaping maw

great sucking discs and beyond them a brilliant glow. The whole

cavernous pit was aflame with phosphorescent light. Dimly he knew that

this light explained the ability of the beastly arms to grope so

surely in the dark.



The eye narrowed as the gaping, fleshy jaws distended, and Robert

Thorpe, in a flash that galvanized him to action, was aware that his

fight for life was on. He fired blindly from the hip, and the recoil

of the heavy gun almost tore it from his hands. But he knew he had

aimed true, and the toothless, seeking jaws whipped in agony back into

the sea.



There were other arms whose eyes were searching the stern of the

yacht. Thorpe plunged frenziedly down a companionway for the cabin he



Paula stood up, smiling a little.



"I did not think I lacked courage, Senhor," she observed, "but you

have taught me more."



"_Nil desperandum_," said Bell lightly. He relaxed deliberately.

Matters would be tense at the flying field, and he would need to be

wholly calm. There was little danger of an attempt at rescue here, and

the necessity of being ready to shoot Ribiera at any instant was no

longer a matter of split seconds.



He watched, while, bent over the back of the front seat, she extracted

two squat weapons from the chauffeur's pockets.



"Quite an arsenal," said Bell as he pocketed them. He turned

pleasantly to Ribiera. "Now, Ribiera, you understand just what I want.

That big amphibian plane of yours is fairly fast, and once when I was

merely your guest you assured me that it was always kept fueled and

even provisioned for a long flight. When we reach the flying field I

want it rolled out and warmed up, over at the other end of the field

from the flying line. We'll go over to it in the car.



"And I've thought of something. It worried me, before, because

sometimes if a man's shot he merely relaxes all over. So while we're

at the flying field I'm going to be holding back the triggers of these

guns with my thumbs. I don't have to pull the trigger at all--just let

go and they'll go off. It isn't so fine an adjustment as I had just

now, but it's safer for you as long as you behave. And you might urge

your chauffeur to be cautious. I do hope, Ribiera, that you won't look

as if you were frightened. If there's any hitch, and delay for letting

some fuel out of the tanks or messing up the motors, I'll be very

sorry for you."



       *       *       *       *       *



The car swooped out into bright sunshine. The flying field lay below,



       *       *       *       *       *



Into the deep dark jungle night, then, a strange incongruity was

thrust. Tall trees loomed up toward the stars. A nameless little

stream flowed placidly through the night and, beached where

impenetrable undergrowth crowded to the water's edge, a big amphibian

plane lay slightly askew, while a light glowed brightly in its cabin.

More, from that cabin there presently emerged the incredible sound of

music, played in Rio for _os gentes_ of the distinctly upper strata of

society by a bored but beautifully trained orchestra.



The _jabiru_ stork heard it, and craned its featherless neck to stare

downward through beady eyes. But it was not frightened. Presently,

instead of music, there was a man's voice booming in the disconnected

sounds of human speech. And still the _jabiru_ was unalarmed. Like

most of the birds whose necks are bald, the _jabiru_ is a useful

scavenger, and so is tolerated in the haunts of men. And if man's

gratitude is not enough for safety, the _jabiru_ smells very, very

badly, and no man hunts his tribe.



       *       *       *       *       *



Bell had been listening impatiently, when a sudden whining, whistling

noise broke into the program of very elevated music, played utterly

without rest. The sound came from the speaker, of course.



He frowned thoughtfully. The whistling changed in timbre and became

flutelike, then changed again, nearly to its original pitch and tone.



Paula was not listening. Her mind seemed very far away, and on

subjects the reverse of pleasurable.



"Listen!" said Bell suddenly. "You hear that whistle? It came on all

at once!"



Paula waited. The whistling noise went on. It was vaguely discordant,

and it was monotonous, and it was more than a little irritating. Again




Paula was pointing. The shoulder of a hill upthrust beneath the

jungle. The tall trees were cleared away at its crest. Small,

whitewashed buildings appeared below.



"Good landing field," said Bell, his eyes narrowing suddenly. "On the

direct route. Fifty miles back there's another landing field. I

wonder...."



He was already suspicious before he flattened out above the house,

while dogs fled madly. He noticed, too, that horses in a corral near

the buildings showed no signs of fright. And horses are always afraid

of landing aircraft, unless they have had much opportunity to grow

accustomed to them.



The little plane rolled and bumped, and gradually came to a stop. Bell

inconspicuously shifted a revolver to the outer pocket of his flying

suit. Figures came toward them, with a certain hesitating reluctance

that changed Bell's suspicions even while it confirmed them.



       *       *       *       *       *



"Paula," he said grimly, "this is another landing field for Ribiera's

emergency use. It sticks out all over the place. Relatives or no

relatives, you want to make sure of them. You understand?"



Her eyes widened in a sudden startled fear. She caught her breath

sharply. Then she said quietly, though her voice trembled:



"I understand. Of course."



She slipped out of the plane and advanced to meet the approaching

figures. There were surprised, astounded exclamations: A bearded man

embraced her and shouted. Women appeared and, after staring, embraced.

Paula turned to wave her hand reassuringly to Bell, and vanished

inside the house.



Bell looked over his instruments, examined the gas in the tank, and

began to work over his maps in the blaring sunlight. He cut out the

switch and the motor stopped with minor hissings of compression. The

maps held his attention, though he listened keenly as he worked for

any signs of trouble that Paula might encounter.



He was beginning to have a definite idea in his mind. Ribiera had

She shook her head and looked up at him, drawing away as if to scan

his face more closely.



"I am thinking," she said almost harshly, "of biology. I wonder--"



Bell waited. He felt an intolerable strain in her tensed figure. He

put his hand comfortingly over hers. And, astoundingly, he found it

trembling.



"Are all women fools?" she demanded in a desperate cynicism. "Are we

all imbeciles? Are--"



Bell's pulse pounded suddenly. He smiled.



"Not unless men are imbeciles too," he said dryly. "We've been through

a lot in the past two days. It's natural that we should like each

other. We've worked together rather well. I--well"--his smile was

distinctly a wry and uncomfortable one--"I've been the more anxious to

get to some civilized place where The Master hasn't a deputy

because--well--it wouldn't be fair to talk about loving you while--"

he shrugged, and said curtly, "while you had no choice but to listen."



       *       *       *       *       *



She stared at him, there in the moonlight with the jungle moving about

its business of life and death about them. And very, very slowly the

tenseness left her figure. And very, very slowly she smiled.



"Perhaps," she said quietly, "you are lying to me, Charles. Perhaps.

But it is a very honorable thing for you to say. I am not ashamed,

now, of feeling that I wish to be always near you."



"Hush!" said Bell. He put his arm about her shoulder and drew her

closer to him. He tilted her face upward. It was oval and quite

irresistibly pretty. "I love you," said Bell steadily. "I've been

fighting it since God knows when, and I'm going to keep on fighting

it--and it's no use. I'm going to keep on loving you until I die."



Her fingers closed tightly upon his. Bell kissed her.



"Now," he said gruffly, "go to sleep."



He pressed her head upon his shoulder and kept it there. After a long







The Cavern World



_By James P. Olsen_



[Illustration: _He aimed it, and the Thing gripping him was hurled

back upon the others._]



[Sidenote: A great oil field had gone dry--and Asher, trapped far

under the earth among the revolting Petrolia, learns why.]





"Impossible! What sort of creatures would they be, that could live two

miles beneath the surface of the earth? Surely, Asher, you are

joking!"



R. Briggs Johns, mighty power back of Stan-America Oil Corporation,

looked at Blaine Asher closely, expecting to see the chief geologist

and scientist of the company laugh. But Blaine Asher did not laugh.

Serious, his rather thin face grave as he leaned his tall, muscular

body above a torsion machine he was adjusting, there was nothing to

indicate he had the faintest idea of a joke.



"Why damn it, Asher!" Johns insisted wrathfully, "you don't really

mean that. And"--he took a nervous turn around the laboratory--"if

such a wild thing were possible, what has that to do with our trouble?

You haven't led me on to spend a million dollars drilling a

thirty-six-inch hole, just so you could test a fantastic theory?"



"You know better than that." Asher wiped his hands and leaned against

a table. Johns, looking into the cool gray eyes of the man before him,

did know better. Blaine Asher was more than just a geologist or

scientist. Well he might be termed a master geo-metallurgist. Johns

nodded, wiping beads of perspiration from his brow.



"You say impossible--and want to know how those creatures cause this

field, the largest oil field in the world, to start going bone dry

over night. All right:



"Remember how you laughed when I told you that oil would some day be

mined instead of pumped or flowed from the earth? You couldn't see how

one central shaft could be sunk, then tunnels run back underneath the

oil strata, tapping the sand from the bottom and letting the oil run

down to be pumped out one shaft. Yet, that way, we would get _all_ the

oil, instead of the possible one-eighth of the total amount as we get



Asher shrugged, and through half-closed lids he eyed Lee Wong and the

rather small, slender Krenski, of the high brow and large head. Then

he walked ahead of them. Head up, shoulders back, he walked carelessly

down the wide hall--a hall that led into the main cavern of that

underground empire.



It was large--fully a hundred feet in a rough square. Not fifteen feet

from floor to ceiling at any point, it followed the course of the two

layers of granite between which it was sandwiched. Other long halls,

or crevices, ran in every direction out of this main cavern. In the

walls, in niches and cracks, the superior pressure lamps had been

placed, throwing a bright, eery light over it all.



Asher recoiled suddenly at the sight of hundreds of Petrolia that

swarmed the hallways, and they seemed to sense another presence beside

that of Lee Wong or Krenski. A choked, gurgling sound came from the

Chinaman, and they disappeared down the halls, squeaking angrily as

they went.



"Our control room," explained Lee Wong waving his hand about him. He

pointed to a dozen twenty-four inch pipe-lines that ran along the low

ceiling, coming from as many different halls into the room, but all

going out the same large hall, larger than the rest. "There are the

arteries of our system. There is the oil that is so--shall we say

strangely?--missing in your wells." He smiled, a taunting, mocking

light in his eyes.



"You well understand how we do it. Above us, just below the oil

strata, is a steel, trough-shaped roof. The oil, tapped from below,

drains into these, and then into these pipe-lines. If we were working

from above, now, we would run it to a central shaft, and pump it out.

We do not want it on the surface, however."



       *       *       *       *       *



"Then why in the name of hell do you want it?" Asher barked, a tense

note of anger in his voice. "And what do you do with it?" These two

made.



"Only that one shot, Gregg?"



Snap's voice was raised over the clang of the workmen bolting the

little gravity-plates of the last platform.



"Four blasts. But just the one projector. Their strongest."



He grinned. He wore no Erentz suit as yet. He stood in torn grimy

work-trousers and a bedraggled shirt, with the inevitable red eyeshade

holding back his unruly hair. Around his waist was the weighted belt

and there were weights on his shoes for gravity stability.



"Didn't hurt us much."



"No."



"When I get the tube-panels in this thing I'll be finished. It'll take

another half-hour. I'll join you. Where are you stationed?"



       *       *       *       *       *



I shrugged. "I was at a front window with Johnny. Nothing to do as

yet."



Snap went back to his work. "Well, the longer they delay, the better

for us. If only your signal got through, Gregg! We'll have a rescue

ship here in a few hours more."



Ah, that "if!"



I turned away. "Can't help you, Snap?"



"No. Take those shields," he added to one of the men.



"Take them where?"



"To Grantline. The front admission porte, or the back. He'll tell you

which."



The shields were wheeled away on a little cart. I followed it.

Grantline sent it to the back exit.



"No other move from them yet, Johnny?"



"No. All quiet."



"Snap's almost finished."



The brigands presently made another play. A giant heat-ray beam came

across the valley. It clung to our front wall for nearly a minute.



Grantline got the reports from the instrument room. He laughed.



"That helped rather than hurt us. Heated the outer wall. Frank took

advantage of it and eased up the motors."



We wondered if Miko knew that. Doubtless he did, for another interval

We gathered at the porte. A last minute change made Grantline order

six of his men to remain guarding the buildings. The instruments--the

Erentz system--all the appliances had to be attended.



It left four platforms, each with three men, with Grantline at the

controls of one of them. And upon the other two of the six Venza rode

with Snap, and I with Anita.



We crouched in the shadows outside the porte. So small an army,

sallying out to bomb this enemy vessel or be killed in the attempt!

Only sixteen of us. And thirty or so brigands.



I envisaged then this tiny Moon-crater, the scene of this battle we

were waging. Struggling humans, desperately trying to kill. Alone here

on this globe. Around us, the wide reaches of Lunar desolation. In all

this world, every human being was gathered here, struggling to kill!



Anita drew me down to the platform. "Ready, Gregg."



The others were rising. We lifted, moved slowly out and away from the

protective shadows of the building.



In a tiny queue the six little platforms sailed out over the valley

toward the brigand ship.





CHAPTER XXXVI



_The Battle in the Crater_



Grantline led us. We held about level. Five hundred feet beneath us

the brigand ship lay, cradled on the rocks. When it was still a mile

away from us I could see all its outline fairly clearly in the

dimness. Its tiny hull-windows were now dark; but the blurred shape of

the hull was visible and above it the rounded cap of dome, with a dim

radiance beneath it.



We followed Grantline's platform. It was rising, drawing the others

after it like a tail. I touched Anita where she lay beside me with her

head half in the small hooded control-bank.



"Going too high."



She nodded, but followed the line nevertheless. It was Grantline's

command.



I lay crouched, holding the inner tips of the flexible side-shields.

The bottom of the platform was covered with the insulated fabric.

There were two side-shields. They extended upward some two feet,

were advancing! They saw us, and came running.



"Anita! Look! We've got to get out of here!"



The secondary lock was open to the corridor. We jammed on our helmets.

The unhelmeted brigands by then were fumbling at the inner panel. I

pulled at the lever of the outer panel. The brigands were hurrying,

thinking they could be in time to stop me. One of the more cautious

fumbled with a helmet.



"Anita, run! Try and keep your feet."



I slid the outer panel and pushed at Anita. Simultaneously the

brigands opened the inner porte.



The air came with a tempestuous rush. A blast through the inner

porte--through the little pressure-lock--a wild rush out to the

airless Moon. All the air in the ship madly rushing to escape....



Like feathers we were blown with it. I recall an impression of the

hurtling brigand figures and swift-flying rocks under me. A silent

crash as I struck.



Then soundless, empty blackness.





CHAPTER XXXVIII



_Triumph!_



"Is he conscious? We'd better take him back, get his helmet off."



"It's over. We can get back now. Venza, dear, we've won--it's over."



"He hears us!"



"Gregg!"



"He hears us--he's all right!"



I opened my eyes. I lay on the rocks. Over my helmet other helmets

were peering, and faint, familiar voices mingled with the roaring in

my ears.



"--back to the camp and get his helmet off."



"Are his motors smooth? Keep them right, Snap--he must have good air."



I seemed unhurt. But Anita....



She was here. "Gregg, dear one!"



Anita safe! All four of us here on the Earthlit rocks, close outside

the brigand ship.



"Anita!"



She held me, lifted me. I was uninjured. I could stand; I staggered up

and stood swaying. The brigand ship, a hundred feet away, loomed dark

and silent, a lifeless bulk, already empty of air, drained in that mad

blast outward. Like the wreck of the _Planetara_--a dead, pulseless

God's sake, quit your bellyachin'. You've done nothin' but whine ever

since we left Juan."



"Well, who could blame me--" began Maget. He broke off suddenly, the

pique in his voice turned to a quiver of fear, as he grasped Durkin's

arm. "Oh, look," he gasped.



Durkin, seeing his partner's eyes staring at a point directly behind

him, leaped up and scrambled away, thinking that a snake must be about

to strike him.



He turned round when he felt he was far enough away, and saw that the

ground was moving near the spot where he had been lying.



The earth was heaving, as though ploughed by a giant share; a blunt,

purplish head, which seemed too fearful to be really alive, showed

through the broken ground, and a worm began to draw its purple length

from the depths. It was no snake, but a gigantic angleworm, and as it

came forth, foot after foot, the two watched with glazed eyes.



Maget swallowed. "I've seen 'em two feet long," he said. "But never

like that."



Durkin, however, when he realized that the loathsome creature could

not see them and was creeping blindly towards them with its ugly, fat

body creasing and elongating, picked up rocks and began to destroy the

monstrous worm. He cursed as he worked.



Dull red blood spattered them, and a fetid odor from the gashes caused

them to retch, but they finally cut the thing in two, and then they

moved away from there.



       *       *       *       *       *



The dull rumblings beneath them frightened Maget, and Durkin too,

though the latter tried to brazen it out.



"Come on, it's gettin' dark. We can take a look in their mine now."



Maget, whimpering, followed. The booming sounds were increasing.



But Durkin slipped down the hillside, and Maget followed into the

valley. They crept past the stone shack, which they noticed was



An eery scream came suddenly from Durkin's lips; Maget wrung his hands

and called for help.



"Come out, Bill, come out," he cried.



Durkin evidently tried to obey, for he turned toward the door. But his

knees seemed to give way beneath him, he threw his arm across his eyes

as he sank to the ground, crying in agony, incoherent sounds issuing

from his lips.



Shriek after shriek the unfortunate man uttered. As Maget made a dash

forward to take a chance with death and rescue his friend, Professor

Gurlone and his son Kenneth ran up and threw a black cloak over the

tramp.



The three entered the shack of death. Maget, not entirely covered,

felt his heart give a terrific jump, and he gasped for breath. Durkin

was quivering on the floor which was lined with lead.



       *       *       *       *       *



Round vials stood about the room like a battery of search-lights, and

from these emanated the deadly green haze.



But almost before Maget touched his pal, Durkin was dead. Curled up as

though sewed together by heavy cords. Durkin lay in a ball, a shaking

mass of burned flesh.



The two Gurlones pushed out ahead of them, and raised their hands.

They had on their black suits and their helmets.



"It is too late to do anything for him now," said Kenneth Gurlone

sadly. "He was headstrong. You can see for yourself that the five

million dollars takes care of itself. Certain death goes with it if

you are unprotected. These lead-cloth suits will keep off the rays for

a short time. We always wear them when we are working with the metal,

even when we have a lead screen."



"Poor Bill," sobbed Maget. "It's terrible!"



Professor Gurlone shrugged. "It was his own fault. He was a thief and

he would not let us stop him. I hope it's been a lesson to you,



"I was going to take you with me."



"Take me where?"



"To the moon," said the drooping figure.



Jerry Foster stared, open-mouthed. The pistol lagged in his limp hand.

"To the moon!" he gasped.



Then: "See here," he said firmly. "I've got you where I want you."--he

held the pistol steady--"and now I'm going to learn what's back of

this. I think you are crazy, absolutely crazy. But, tell me, who are

you? What do you think you're doing? What was the meaning of that

roaring blast?"



       *       *       *       *       *



The man looked up. "You don't know?" he asked eagerly. "You really

don't?"



"No," said Jerry; "but I'm going to find out."



"Yes," the other agreed. "Yes, you can, now that you've got the

upper-hand. I guess I was half crazy when I thought I had been spied

out. But I'll tell you."



He sat erect. "I am Thomas J. Winslow," he said, and made the

statement as if it were an explanation in itself.



"Well," said Jerry, "that's no burst of illumination to my ignorance.

Come again."



The man called Winslow was ready--anxious--to talk.



"I am an inventor. I have made millions of dollars"--Jerry looked at

the disheveled apparel of the speaker and smiled--"for other people.

The Stillwater syndicate stole my valveless motor. Then I developed my

television set. Goodwin beat me out of that: he will have it on the

market inside of a year. I swore they should never profit by this, my

greatest invention."



Jerry was impressed in spite of himself by the man's earnest

simplicity.



"What is it?" he asked.



"I've broken the atom," said Winslow. "First tore the atoms of

hydrogen and oxygen apart--dissociated them in the molecule of

water--and have resolved them into their energy components. That's

what you heard--the reaction. It it self-sustaining, exothermic. That

to fill the void. It will serve our ends, too. It will churn the air

into a mixture we can breathe, dispel the thick layer of CO_2 that

must have formed close to the ground."



More hours, and the icy sheet was melting. A film of water rippled in

the gusts of wind. Winslow opened the release valve that would permit

the escape of air from their chamber, equalizing the pressures within

and without. The air hissed through the valve, and he closed it so the

escape was gradual.



"We must exercise," he told Jerry. "We will decompress slowly, like

divers coming up from deep-sea work. But watch yourself," he warned.

"Remember you are six times as strong as you were on the earth. Don't

jump through the roof."



       *       *       *       *       *



THE valve had ceased to hiss when Winslow opened it wide. The air in

their cabin was thin; their lungs labored heavily at first. Jerry felt

as he had felt more than once at some great elevation on earth. But

they lived, and they could breathe, and they were about to do what

never man had done--to set foot on this place men called the unknown

side of the moon.



Earth habits were strong: Jerry brought his pistol and a hunting knife

out of his pack and hung them at his belt, as the inventor opened the

door and sniffed cautiously of the air.



Jerry Foster's blood was racing; the air was cold on his face as he

rushed out. But it brought to his nostrils odors strange and yet

strangely familiar. He was oddly light-headed, irresponsible as a

child as he shouted and danced and threw himself high in the air, to

laugh childishly at the pure pleasure of his light landing.



The sun made long shadows of two ludicrous figures that went leaping

and racing across the rocks. Their strength was prodigious, and they

were filled with an upwelling joy of living and the combined urge of

He repeated, it seemed, a command, congratulation, to judge by the

ecstasy of the figure below. The warrior turned once to throw himself

before the image of the sun; he repeated this again and yet again

before he crept back to his fellows. The group arose and rushed

swiftly toward the bound man.



They brought him quickly into the presence. With scant ceremony Jerry

was unrolled from the net; he lay free and gasping upon the floor. The

men scurried like mad from out the pathway of light that shone down

from the false sun. Jerry rose to his feet; the brilliance before him

almost blinded, but he saw now whence it came.



There was a hollow in the wall, a great parabola, deep and wide, and

it was lined throughout with beaten gold. In a straight path the light

was reflected from every point--every point but one for at the far

end, where the curved sides joined, was a circle of darkness. It

stared like an eye, evil, portentous. Jerry nerved himself for an

ordeal, unknown but imminent. The black eye glared at him unwinkingly.



Before him was the pathway of light: it shone brilliantly down the

sloping ramp where a floor of bright gold led up to the sun god

itself.



The figure on the dais raised its hand. Jerry heard the words come

from its lips and roll sonorously back from above. The figure waited

for an answer.



Jerry's hands slipped beneath his coat to rest reassuringly upon his

weapons. He withdrew his hands empty and raised one toward the figure

above.



"I do not understand your words," he said. "Your language is strange.

No doubt mine is as strange to you. I come as a visitor--I am

friendly." He held out both his hands, palms upward.



"We have come, my friend and myself, on a friendly errand." He paused

to look vainly about for Winslow. "And you have received us as if we

were wild animals."



       *       *       *       *       *

showed them going through the passage to the outside. "We will come

back, and we will find some way to end all this damnable thing."



She gave them to understand the time that was left. The sun, she

showed, was long past the meridian and was on its return. The day was

now reaching a close. And then, as the sun set, the great sacrifice

would be made--had always been made--to insure the return of their

god.



       *       *       *       *       *



Their watches were useless, for the water had entered their cases. The

two men waited what they judged was the length of a day, while Jerry

tried to believe that his arm was improving. Then, putting a small

supply of food in their pockets, they were ready for the attempt.



Jerry saw that his gun and knife were ready at his belt, and patted a

pocket where his matches were safe in their watertight container. The

prospect of escape almost unnerved him. To breathe the clear air; to

stand in the radiant light of the sun--he could understand now how

these people made a god of the sun. He turned to Marahna.



"Good-by," he said, "but not for long. We'll be back. And we'll save

you, Marahna, we'll save you. Winslow will figure some way to do

it.... We'll be back...."



The girl was silent. She touched Jerry's arm, and shook her head

slowly, doubtfully.



He reached for the hand. It trembled, he felt, in his. The impulse to

take the slim form within his arms, to hold her close, was strong upon

him. Would he ever see her again ... would he?



"Won't you say good-by, Marahna?" he asked.



But she smiled, instead--a friendly smile, and encouraging. Then

dropped in silence to her knees to press with both her trembling hands

his hand upon her forehead. And, still in silence, she rose to vanish

from the room.



him, laughed chokingly, wildly, at the words of his companion.



"It is sodium," Winslow was saying in explanation, as he saw Jerry's

eyes resting on the light. "A hydrogen flame, but there's sodium in

the rocks that turns the flame yellow. I rigged up a flame-thrower of

hydrogen."



"You would," Jerry gasped through hysterical laughter. "You would do

just that, and make your way back to this hell just to save me--you

damn fool inventor!"



       *       *       *       *       *



He clung to Winslow, who was raising him to his feet. Marahna was

beside him, robed in the golden garment of the priest. She placed her

hands beside his face to turn him toward the further wall. The light

was fickle, but it showed him, as it rose and fell, the blackened,

swollen body of the monster, still writhing in its death struggle. And

beside it, blasted and charred, the head of the obscene sun god,

severed by the cutting, obliterating blast, lay flabby and black in a

silent heap.



"Rather effective," said Winslow complacently, "though I didn't have

much to work with. Two small vials of my liquid and a hand generator

to furnish the current. A tubular strut from the frame of the ship

made the blow-pipe."



"And these?" Jerry questioned, and pointed to the priest's vestments

that Winslow still wore.



"Oh, it was all quiet up above," said the inventor, "and I came down

the rope. But there was one of them waiting at the bottom. He didn't

need these any more when I left, so I took them to help get about--"



He stopped, to cross quickly and pick up the flame-thrower as the

flame died away. It roared as he worked at the mechanism, then

dwindled again. Its light, for an instant, was reflected in a liquid

on the floor.



"Broken!" said Winslow in an anguished voice. "The vials are

gone--smashed! And I counted on this to hold off the mob, to get us

made of the gesture a rite, he placed the chain about the neck of

Princess Marahna--Queen, now, of the People of the Moon. And he knew

that he gave into her keeping their only relic of a being from the

sun. It marked her beyond all future question with a symbol of

mastery. And it made of him a god.



And even a queen may not aspire to such an one.



It was well that Winslow's hand was there to guide him as he walked

with unseeing eyes toward the ship.



       *       *       *       *       *



Time may lose at times all meaning and measure--moments become

timeless. It seemed ages to Jerry Foster when Winslow spoke in casual

tones. "I'm going straight up," he said, above the generator's roar.

"Then we'll swing around above the other side. We'll follow the

sun--make the full circle of the moon before we start."



But Jerry neither thought nor heard. His eyes were close to a window

of thick glass. Below him was a shrinking, dwindling landscape,

wind-swept and desolate.



There was a multitude of faces, turned worshipping toward the sky. On

one, who stood apart in tiny loneliness, his vision centered. He

watched and strained his aching eyes until the figure was no more.

Only the pale rose of a dying sun, and a torn, volcanic waste that

tugged strangely at his heart.



"Yes," he answered mechanically, "yes, we'll go round with the sun ...

a couple of sun gods."



He laughed strangely as he regarded his companion.



If Winslow wondered at the weariness in the voice he made no sign. He

was busy with a rheostat that made thunderous roaring of the blast

behind their ship: that swung them in a sweeping arc through velvet

skies, away from the far side of the moon, to follow the path of the

setting sun--homeward bound.









_The Readers' Corner_

