

    ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE-NOVELS

    MONTHLY, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, RANGELAND LOVE STORY

    MAGAZINE, WESTERN ADVENTURES, and FOREST AND STREAM.



  _More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand for

  Clayton Magazines._



       *       *       *       *       *



  VOL. III. No. 3              CONTENTS      SEPTEMBER, 1930



  COVER DESIGN              H. W. WESSOLOWSKI

  _Painted in Water-Colors from a Scene in "Marooned Under the Sea."_



  A PROBLEM IN COMMUNICATION     MILES J. BREUER, M.D.               293

  _The Delivery of His Country into the Clutches of a Merciless,

   Ultra-Modern Religion Can Be Prevented Only by Dr. Hagstrom's

   Deciphering an Extraordinary Code._



  JETTA OF THE LOWLANDS        RAY CUMMINGS                          310

  _Fantastic and Sinister Are the Lowlands into Which Philip Grant Descends

   on His Dangerous Assignment._ (Beginning a Three-Part Novel.)



  THE TERRIBLE TENTACLES, OF L-472     SEWELL PEASLEE WRIGHT         332

  _Commander John Hanson of the Special Patrol Service Records Another of

   His Thrilling Interplanetary Assignments._



  MAROONED UNDER THE SEA       PAUL ERNST                            346

  _Three Men Stick Out a Strange and Desperate Adventure Among the


his ease. "You see, I'm nothing like a dictator here. I have no

arbitrary power. Everything runs by system, and you're a sort of

exception. No one knows exactly how to classify you. Neither do I. But,

I can't break a rule. That is sin."



"What rule? I want to go to New York."



"Only those of the Faith who have reached the third degree can come and

go. No one can get that in less than three years."



"Then you got me in here by fraud?" Benda asked bluntly.



Rohan side-stepped gracefully.



"You know our innermost secrets now," he explained. "Do you suppose

there is any hope of your embracing the Faith?"



Benda whirled on his heel and walked out.



"I'll think about it!" he said, his voice snapping with sarcasm.



Benda went back to his work in order to get his mind off the matter. He

was a well-balanced man if he was anything; and he knew that nothing

could be accomplished by rash words or incautious moves against Rohan

and his organization. And on that day he met John Edgewater Smith.



"You here?" Benda gasped. He lost his equilibrium for a moment in

consternation at the sight of his fellow-engineer.



Smith was too elated to notice Benda's mood.



"I've been here a week. This is certainly an ideal opportunity in my

line of work. Even in Heaven I never expected to find such a chance."



By this time Benda had regained control of himself. He decided to say

nothing to Smith for the time being.



       *       *       *       *       *



They did not meet again for several weeks. In the meantime Benda

discovered that his mail was being censored. At first he did not know

that his letters, always typewritten, were copied and objectionable

matter omitted, and his signature reproduced by the photo-engraving

process, separately each time. But before long, several letters came

I was prepared for the fact that each one of the specimens represented a

letter of the alphabet. If nothing else, their number indicated that.

Now I could see, so clearly that the photographs shouted at me, that

each specimen consisted of an upright stem, and from this middle stem

projected side-arms to the right and to the left, and in various

vertical locations on each side.



The middle upright stem contained these side-arms in various numbers

and combinations. In five minutes I had a copy of the message,

translated into its fundamental characters, as shown on Plate II.



[Illustration: Plate I]



The first grass-blade was the simple, upright stem; the second, three

leaflets on their stem, represented the upright portion with two arms to

the left at the top and middle, and one arm to the right at the top; and

so on.



That brought the message down to the simple and straightforward matter

of a substitution cipher. I was confident that Benda had no object in

introducing any complications that could possibly be avoided, as his

sole purpose was to get to me the most readable message without getting

caught at it. I recollected now how cautious he had been to hand me no

paper, and how openly and obviously he had dropped each specimen into my

book; because he knew someone was watching him and expecting him to slip

in a message. He had, as I could see now in the retrospect, been

conspicuously careful that nothing suspicious should pass from his hands

to mine.



[Illustration: Plate II]



Substitution ciphers are easy to solve, especially for those having some

experience. The method can be found in Edgar Allen Poe's "Gold Bug" and

in a host of its imitators. A Secret Service cipher man could have read

it in an hour. But I knew my friend's mind well enough to find a

short-cut. I knew just how he would go about devising such a cipher, in

fact, how ninety-nine persons out of a hundred with a scientific

education would do it.



If we begin adding horizontal arms to the middle stem, from top to


crept along the floor. Rose up suddenly at the window.



And stared at a face peering in at me. A small face, framed by short,

clustering, dark curls.



A girl!









CHAPTER III



_In a Moonlit Garden_





She drew back from the window like a startled fawn; timorous, yet

curious, too, for she ran only a few steps, then turned and stood

peering. The moonlight slanted over the western roof of the building and

fell on her. A slight, boyish figure in short, tattered trousers and a

boy's shirt, open at her slim, rounded throat. The moonlight gleamed on

the white shirt fabric to show it torn and ragged. Her arms were

upraised; her head, with clustering, flying dark curls, was tilted as

though listening for a sound from me. A shy, wild creature. Drawn to my

window; tapping to awaken me, then frightened at what she had done.



I opened the garden door. She did not move. I thought she would run, but

she did not. The moonlight was on me as I stood there. I was conscious

of its etching me with its silver sheen. And twenty feet from me this

girl stood and gazed, with startled eyes and parted lips--and white

limbs trembling like a frightened animal.



The patio was very silent. The heavy arching fronds stirred slightly

with a vague night breeze; the moonlight threw a lacy dark pattern of

them on the gray stone path. The fountain bowl gleamed white in the

moonlight behind the girl, and in the silence I could hear the low

splashing of the water.



A magic moment. Unforgettable. It comes to some of us just once, but to

all of us it comes. I stood with its spell upon me. Then I heard my

voice, tense but softly raised.



"Who are you?"



It frightened her. She retreated until the fountain was between us. And

as I took a step forward, she retreated further, noiseless, with her

bare feet treading the smooth stones the path.



       *       *       *       *       *



The cinnabar ran like thick blood-red veins in the rock.



"Rich," said the mine commander. "That it is. Rich. But who does it make

rich? Only Spawn, not me." He waved his arms, airing his grievance with

which for an hour past he had regaled me. "Only Spawn. For me, a dole

each week."



The smelter was in a stone building--one of a small group of mine houses

which stood in a cauldron depression above excavations. Rounded domes of

rock towered above them. The sun, even at this tri-noon hour, was gone

behind the heights above us. The murky shadows of night were gathering,

the mists of the Lowlands settling. The tube-lights of the mine, strung

between small metal poles, winked on like bleary eyes.



"Of a day soon I will fling this job to hell--"



       *       *       *       *       *



I was paying scant attention to the fellow's tirade. Could there be

smuggling going on from this mine? It all seemed to be conducted openly

enough. If the production record were being falsified I felt that this

dissatisfied mine commander was not aware of it. He showed me the

smelter, where the quicksilver condensed in the coils and ran with its

small luminous silver streams into the vats.



He was called away momentarily by one of his men, leaving me standing

there. I was alone; no one seemed in sight, or within hearing. In the

shadow of the condensers I drew out my transmitter and called Hanley.



I got him within a minute.



"Chief!"



"Yes, Phil. I hoped you'd call me. Didn't want to chance it, raising you

when you might not be alone."



I told him swiftly what I had done; where I was now.



And Hanley said, with equal briskness: "I've an important fact. Just had

Markes on secret wave-length. He tells me that Spawn has been saving up

his quicksilver for six months past. He's got several hundred thousand




I could see them in the moonlight across the pit. Perona now standing

up, the giant figure of the bandit towering over him.



       *       *       *       *       *



Hanley's microscopic voice cut in: "Getting it, Phil? To seize you for

ransom!"



"Yes. I hear it."



"This girl. Who--?"



"Wait, Chief. Off--"



De Boer: "I will do it! Fifty thousand."



Perona: "An hour now. Spawn will be at his home asleep."



"And you will go to the mine?"



"Yes. Now, from here. You seize this fellow Grant, and then attack the

mine. Our regular plan, De Boer. This does not change it."



Attack Spawn's mine! Half a million of treasure was there to-night!



Perona was chuckling: "You give Spawn's guards the signal. They are all

my men--in my pay. They will run away when you appear."



Hanley cut in again. "By the gods, they're after that treasure! Phil,

listen to me! you must...." His voice faded.



"Chief, I can't hear you!"



Hanley came again: "... And I will notify Porto Rico. The local patrol

will be about ready to leave."



"Or notify Nareda headquarters," I suggested. "If you can get President

Markes, he can send some police to the mine--"



"And find all Nareda's police bribed by Perona? I'll get Porto Rico. We

have an hour or two; the patrol can reach you in an hour."



The bandits were preparing to leave here. Two or three of them had gone

to the flyer. Perona and De Boer were parting.



"... Well, that is all, De Boer."



"Right, Señor Perona. I will start shortly."



"On foot, by the street route to Spawn's--"



Hanley's hurried voice came back: "I've sent the call to Porto Rico."



       *       *       *       *       *



"And am I to land there, sir?" I asked eagerly.



"Your orders are very specific upon that point," said Commander Jamison.

"You are not to land until you have carefully and thoroughly

reconnoitered from above, at low altitude. You will exercise every

possible precaution. Your specific purpose is simply this: to determine,

if possible, the fate of the other two ships, and report your findings

at once. The Chiefs of the Service will then consider the matter, and

take whatever action may seem advisable to them." Jamison rose to his

feet and thrust out his hand in Earth's fine old salute of farewell.



"I must be going, Hanson," he said. "I wish this patrol were mine

instead of yours. You are a young man for such a responsibility."



"But," I replied, with the glowing confidence of youth, "I have the

advantage of having served under Commander Jamison!"



       *       *       *       *       *



He smiled as we shook again, and shook his head.



"Discretion can be learned only by experience," he said. "But I wish you

success, Hanson; on this undertaking, and on many others. Supplies are

on their way now; the crew will return from leave within the hour. A

young Zenian, name of Dival, I believe, is detailed to accompany you as

scientific observer--purely unofficial capacity, of course. He has been

ordered to report to you at once. You are to depart as soon as feasible:

you know what that means. I believe that's all--Oh, yes! I had almost

forgotten.



"Here, in this envelope, are your orders and your course, as well as all

available data on L-472. In this little casket is--your comet, Hanson. I

know you will wear it with honor!"



"Thank you, sir!" I said, a bit huskily. I saluted, and Commander

Jamison acknowledged the gesture with stiff precision. Commander Jamison

always had the reputation of being something of a martinet.



When he had left, I picked up the thin blue envelope he had left. Across


the interior of the _Dorlos_.



The _ethon_ tubes overhead made everything as light as day, and since

the _Dorlos_ was a sister ship of my own _Kalid_, I had not the

slightest difficulty in finding my way about.



There was no sign of a disturbance anywhere. Everything was in perfect

order. From the evidence, it would seem that the officers and men of the

_Dorlos_ had deserted the ship of their own accord, and--failed to

return.



"Nothing of value here," I commented to Dival. "We may as well--"



There was a sudden commotion from outside the ship. Startled shouts

rang through the hollow hull, and a confused medley of excited thoughts

came pouring in.



With one accord the four of us dashed to the exit, Dival and I in the

lead. At the door we paused, following the stricken gaze of the men

grouped in a rigid knot just outside.



Some, forty feet away was the edge of the forest that hemmed us in. A

forest that now was lashing and writhing as though in the grip of some

terrible hurricane, trunks bending and whipping, long branches writhing,

curling, lashing out--



"Two of the men, sir!" shouted a non-commissioned officer of the landing

crew, as we appeared in the doorway. In his excitement he forgot his

menore, and resorted to the infinitely slower but more natural speech.

"Some sort of insect came buzzing down--like an Earth bee, but larger.

One of the men slapped it, and jumped aside, forgetting the low gravity

here. He shot into the air, and another of the men made a grab for him.

They both went sailing, and the trees--_look!_"



But I had already spotted the two men. The trees had them in their grip,

long tentacles curled around them, a dozen of the great willow-like

growths apparently fighting for possession of the prizes. And all

around, far out of reach, the trees of the forest were swaying

restlessly, their long, pendulous branches, like tentacles, lashing out

hungrily.



"The rays, sir!" snapped the thought from Dival, like a flash of

lightning. "Concentrate the beams--strike at the trunks--"

"If it does I want my money back," said Stanley. "When you asked me to

finance this expedition for you, I agreed on condition that you would

show me a thrill--some _real_ big game, even if I would not be able to

shoot it. If we draw blank--"



"The mere descent should satisfy you, my adventuring friend," replied

the Professor brusquely. "I think you'll find that thrilling enough."



"But--a mile under the surface!" I marveled, feeling not entirely

comfortable. "The pressure! Enormous! It can't be done! That is, I mean,

can it be done?"



"It had better be," said Stanley with a humor that I did not entirely

appreciate. "If it isn't, the three of us are going to be pressed out

like three sheets of tissue paper! For we are assuredly going down that

far in the Professor's gadget."



"Was that the thing I saw hoisted aboard just before we left?"



"That was it. We'll stroll around after lunch and look it over."



If I had taken this cruise in search of distraction--I was surely going

to be successful! That was plain!



"Just where are we going?" I asked. "You said something about the South

Seas, but you've named no special part of them."



"We're bound for Penguin Deep. That's a delightful little dimple in the

Kermadec Trough, which," Stanley explained, "is north-northeast of New

Zealand almost halfway up to the Fiji Islands. Penguin Deep is ticketed

at five thousand one hundred and fifty feet, but it probably runs deeper

in spots."



The rest of the meal was consumed in silence. I hardly tasted what I

ate; I remember that. Over five thousand feet down--where no man had

ever ventured before! Could we make it?



I tried to recall my neglected physics lessons and compute the pressure

that far down. I couldn't. But I knew it must be an appalling total of

tons to the square inch. What possible arrangement could they have

brought in which to make that awful descent?



And, if the descent were accomplished, what in the world would we see

when we got down there? Gigantic, hitherto unknown fishes? Marine


       *       *       *       *       *



The hour that followed was longer than any full day I have ever lived

through. Had I not confirmed the passage of time by looking at my

watch, I would have sworn that at least twenty hours had passed.



Every half-minute I gazed at that weaving pattern of cup-shaped suckers

only five feet away, trying to see if they were relaxing in their

pressure. I attempted to persuade myself that they were. But I knew I

was only imagining it. Actually they were pressed as flat as ever, and

the sphere still quivered at regular intervals as the heavy body

squeezed in on itself. There was no sign that its blind, mindless

patience was becoming exhausted.



There was little conversation during that interminable hour.



Stanley grinned wryly once and commented on the creature's

disappointment if it actually succeeded in getting at us.



"We'd be scattered all over the surrounding half mile by the pressure of

the water," he said. "There'd be nothing left for our pet to feed on but

five-foot chunks of broken glass. Not a very satisfying meal."



"We might try to reason with the thing--point out how foolish it is to

waste its time on us," I suggested, trying to appear as nonchalant as he

was.



The Professor said nothing. He was coolly writing in his notebook,

describing minutely the appearance of our abysmal captor.



Finally I chanced to look down through a section of wall not covered by

our stubborn enemy. I wiped the moisture from the glass before the

searchlight so that I could see more clearly.



       *       *       *       *       *



The bottom seemed to be heaving up and down. I blinked my eyes and

looked again. It was not an illusion. With a regular dip and rise we

back to the earth's surface, were questions we could not even try to

answer.



       *       *       *       *       *



We ate of the appetizing food laid out on the long table. Shortly

afterward we heard steps in the corridor outside the room.



A woman entered. She was ravishingly beautiful, tall, slender but

symmetrically rounded. A soft leather robe slanted upward across her

breast to a single shoulder fastening and ended just above her knees in

a skirt arrangement. Around her head was a regal circlet of silvery gray

metal with a flashing bit of crystal set in the center above her broad,

low forehead.



She smiled at Stanley who looked dazzled and smiled eagerly back.



She pointed toward the door, signifying that we were to go with her. We

did so; and were led down the great staircase and to a huge room that

took up half the ground floor of the building. And here we met the

nobility of the little kingdom--the upper class that governed the

immaculate little city.



They were standing along the walls, leaving a lane down the center of

the room--tall, finely modelled men and women dressed in the single

garments of soft leather. There were people there with gray hair and

wisdom wrinkled faces; but all were alike in being erect of body, firm

of bearing and in splendid health.



They stopped talking as we entered the big room. Our gaze strayed ahead

down the lane toward the further wall.



Here was a raised dais. On it was a gleaming crystal encrusted throne.

And occupying it was the most queenly, exquisitely beautiful woman I

had ever dreamed about.



       *       *       *       *       *



Woman? She was just a girl in years in spite of her grave and royal air.




"This tells of each move of the Quabos," said Aga. "It also tells us

where they will break through the city wall. How near to us are they,

Kilor?" she asked an attendant who was studying the dial, and who had

bowed respectfully to Aga and myself as we approached.



"They will break into the city in four rixas at the present rate of

advance, Your Majesty."



Four rixas! In a little over sixteen days, as we count time, the city of

Zyobor would be delivered into the hands--or, rather, tentacles--of the

slimy, starving demons that huddled in the cavern outside!



Somberly we followed Aga back to her apartment.



       *       *       *       *       *



"As thou seest," she murmured, "there is nothing to be done. We can only

resign ourselves to the fate that nears us, and enjoy as much as may be

the few remaining rixas...."



She glanced at me.



The Professor's dry, cool voice cut across our wordless, engrossed

communion.



"I don't think we'll give up quite as easily as all that. We can at

least try to outwit our enemies. If it does nothing else for us, the

effort can serve to distract our minds."



He drew from his pocket a sheet of parchment and the stub of his last

remaining pencil. His fingers busied themselves apparently idly in the

tracing of geometric lines.



"Looking ahead to the exact details of our destruction," he mused

coolly, "we see that our most direct and ominous enemy is the sea

itself. When the city is flooded, we drown--and later the Quabos can

enter at will."



He drew a few more lines, and marked a cross at a point in the outer rim

of the diagram.



"What will happen? The Quabos force through the last shell of the city

wall. The water from their tunnel floods into Zyobor. But--and mark me


subjects, came quietly over to us and sat on the bench beside me.



Frankly I could think of nothing. To my mind we were surely doomed. What

arms could possibly be contrived at such short notice? What weapon

could be called forth to be effective against the thick glass helmets?



But as I glanced at Stanley I saw his face set in a new expression as

his thoughts took a turn that suggested possible salvation.



"Glass," he muttered. "Glass. What destroys it? Sharp blows ... certain

acids ... variation in temperature ... heat and cold.... That's it!

_That's it!_"



He turned excitedly to the Queen.



"I think we have it! At least it's worth trying. If there is any tubing

around...." He stopped as he realized he was talking in English, and

resumed stiltedly in Aga's own language.



"Hast thou, in the palace, any lengths of pipe like to that which the

Quabos drag behind them?"



"No ..." Aga began, her eyes round and wondering. Then she interrupted

herself. "Ah, yes! There is! In a vault near that of Kilor's there is a

great spool of it. He had it fashioned to carry air for one of his

experiments--"



"Come along!" cried Stanley. "I'll explain what I have in mind while we

dig up this coil of hose."



       *       *       *       *       *



A score of Zyobite workmen were gathered at once. The length of

hose--made of some linen-like fabric of tough, shredded sea-weed and

covered with a flexible metal sheath--was cut into three pieces each

about fifty yards long. These were connected to three of the largest gas

vents of the palace.



Stanley, the Professor and I each took an end. And we prepared to fight,

with fire, the creatures of water.



"It ought to work," Stanley, repeated several times as though trying to

reassure himself as well as us. "It's simple enough: the water in those


in the quiet of my study. When he had heard Margot's story, he asked a

single significant question. It was this:



"You say you have a desire to go back to a man who was once intimate

with you. Who is he?"



Margot looked at him dully.



"It is Michael Strange," she said slowly. "Michael Strange, of Paris. A

student of science."



Drake nodded. Without further questioning he dismissed my patient; and

when she had gone, he turned to me.



"She did not murder her sweetheart, Dale" he said. "That is evident.

Have you any idea who did?"



And so I told him of that other young man. Sir John Harmon, who had come

to me the night before. When I had finished. Drake stared at me--stared

through me--and suddenly turned on his heel.



"I shall be back, Dale," he said curtly. "Wait for me!"



       *       *       *       *       *



Wait for him! Well, that was Drake's peculiar way of going about things.

Impetuous, sudden--until he faced some crisis. Then, in the face of

danger, he became a cold, indifferent officer of Scotland Yard.



And so I waited. During the twenty-four hours that elapsed before Drake

returned to my study, I did my best to diagnose the case before me.

First, Sir John Harmon--his visit to the home of Franklin White.

Then--the deliberate murder. And, finally, young Margot Vernee, and her

confession. It was like the revolving whirl of a pinwheel, this series

of events: continuous and mystifying, but without beginning or end.

Surely, somewhere in the procession of horrors, there would be a loose

end to cling to. Some loose end that would eventually unravel the

pinwheel!



It was plainly not a medical affair, or at least only remotely so. The

thing was in proper hands, then, with Drake following it through. And I

had only to wait for his return.



He came at last, and closed the door of the room behind him. He stood

man to be suspected. I have a keen appreciation for the irony of fate!

White would have died the night before, Dale, except that I lacked the

courage to kill him. His murderer was standing, under my power, outside

his very house--and then I suddenly thought it best that I should have

an alibi. Your Scotland Yard is clever, and it was best that I have

protection. And so, on the following night, I sent Sir John to the house

once again. This time, while I sat here and controlled the actions of my

puppet, a group of men sat here with me. They believed that I was

experimenting with a new type of radio receiver!"



       *       *       *       *       *



Michael Strange laughed, laughed harshly, in utter triumph, as a cat

laughs at the antics of his mouse victims.



"When that murder was done," he said, "I sent Margot to the scene, so

that she might see her lover strangled, dead. I repeat, Dale, that I

enjoy the irony of fate, especially when I can control it. And as for

you--I brought you here to-night merely so that you would realize the

intensity of the powers that control you. When you leave here, you will

be unharmed--but after the exhibition I shall give you, I am sure that

you will make no further attempt to interfere with things out of your

realm of understanding."



I heard a sob from Margot. She had retreated to the door, and clung

there. For myself, I did not move. Strange's recital had revealed to me

the horrible lust that gripped him, and now I watched him in

fascination. He would not harm the girl; that much I was sure of. In his

distorted fashion he loved her. In his crazed, murderous way he would

attempt to win her love, even though she had once scorned him.



       *       *       *       *       *


ship behind an ultra-violet absorbing wall and so became invisible."



"If the walls absorbed all the ultra-violet and were impermeable to

light without ultra-violet, the ship would appear as a black opaque

substance and could be seen."



"That would be true except for one thing which you are forgetting. The

heaviside layer, as I have repeatedly proved, is a splendid conductor of

ultra-violet. The rays falling on it are probably bent along the line of

the covering layer so that they open up and bend around the ship in the

same manner as flowing water will open up and flow around a stone and

then come together again. The light must flow around the solid ship and

then join again in such a manner that the eye can detect no

interruption."



"Jim, all that sounds reasonable, but have you any proof of it?"



"No, First Mortgage, I haven't--yet; but if the Lord is good to us we'll

have definite proof this afternoon and be in a position to successfully

combat this new menace to the world."



"Do you expect me to go on another one of your crack-brained expeditions

into the unknown with you?"



       *       *       *       *       *



"Certainly I do, but this time we won't go out of the known. I have our

old space flyer which we took beyond the heaviside layer six years ago

ready for action and we're going to look for the invaders this

afternoon."



"How will we see them if they are invisible?"



"They are invisible to ordinary light but not to ultra-violet light.

While most of the ultra-violet is deflected and flows around the ship or

else is absorbed, I have an idea that, if we bathe it in a sufficient

concentration of ultra-violet, some would be reflected. We are going to

look for the reflected portion."



"Ultra-violet light is invisible."



"It is to the eye, but it can be detected. You know that radium is

the beetle commander, went over the ship. The insect was evidently

amused at Jim and was determined to find out the limits of his

intelligence, for he pointed out various controls and motors of the ship

and made elaborate sketches which Jim seemed to comprehend fairly well.



       *       *       *       *       *



One of the beetles approached the control board and motioned me back. I

stepped away from the board; evidently a port in the side of the vessel

opened, for I felt a breath of air and could hear the hum of the city. I

walked to the side and glanced down, and found that we were floating

about twenty feet off the ground over a street on the edge of the city.

On the street a short distance ahead of us two children, evidently

returning from school, to judge by the books under their arms, were

walking unsuspectingly along. A turn of the dial sped up our motors, and

as the hum rang out in a louder key the children looked upward. Two of

the long flexible wires shot out and wrapped themselves about the

children; screaming, they were lifted into the space flyer. The port

through which they came in shut with a clang and the ship rose rapidly

into the air. The children were released from the wires which coiled

themselves up on deck and the beetle who had operated them stepped

forward and grasped the nearer of the children, a boy of about eleven,

by the arm. He raised the boy, who was paralyzed with terror, up toward

his head and gazed steadily into his eyes. Slowly the boy ceased

struggling and became white and rigid. The beetle laid him on the deck

and turned to the girl. Involuntarily I gave a shout and sprang forward,

but Jim grasped me by the arm.



"Keep quiet, you darned fool!" he cried. "We can do nothing now. Wait

for a chance!"



"We can't stand here and see murder done!" I protested.


_By Arthur J. Burks_









CHAPTER XIX



_Desolation_





Stranger, more thrilling even than had been the flight of the Earth

after being forced out of its orbit, was the flight of those dozen

aircars of the Moon, bearing the rebels of Dalis' Gens back to Earth.



[Sidenote: Martian fire-balls and the terrific Moon-cubes wreak

tremendous destruction on helpless Earth in the final death struggle of

the warring worlds.]



For the light which glowed from the bodies of the rebels, which had been

given them by their passage through the white flames, was transmitted to

the cars themselves, so that they glowed as with an inner radiance of

their own--like comets flashing across the night.



Strange alchemy, which Sarka wondered about and, wondering, looked ahead

to the time when he should be able, within his laboratory, to analyze

the force it embodied, and thus gain new scientific knowledge of untold

value to people of the Earth.



As the cars raced across outer darkness, moving at top speed, greater

than ever attained before by man, greater than even these mighty cars

had traveled, Sarka looked ahead, and wondered about the fearful report

his father had just given him.



That there was an alliance between Mars and the Moon seemed almost

unbelievable. How had they managed the first contact, the first

negotiations leading to the compact between two such alien peoples? Had

there been any flights exchanged by the two worlds, surely the

scientists of Earth would have known about it. But there had not, though

there had been times and times when Sarka had peered closely enough at

the surface of both the Moon and of Mars to see the activities, or the

results of the activities, of the peoples of the two worlds.



Somehow, however, communication, if Sarka the Second had guessed

correctly, had been managed between Mars and the Moon; and now that the

Earth was a free flying orb the two were in alliance against it, perhaps

for the same reason that the Earth had gone a-voyaging.



       *       *       *       *       *

"Interplanetary cars? Rockets? Balls of fire? Or beings of Mars?"



"I think," said Sarka, after studying the display for a few minutes,

"that they are either rockets or fireballs, perhaps both together! But

the Martians cannot consolidate any position on the Earth without coming

to handgrips. Since they must know this, we can expect to see the people

of Mars themselves when, or soon after, those balls of fire strike the

Earth!"



Sarka raced back to the room of the Master Beryl as a strident humming

came through to him.



       *       *       *       *       *



The Spokesmen of the Gens whose borders touched those of the devasted

Dalis area, were reporting again, and their voices were high pitched

with fear that threatened to break the bounds of sanity.



"The ferment in the devasted area," was the gist of their report, "is

assuming myriads of shapes! The fused mass has broken up into isolated

masses, and each mass of itself is assuming one of the many forms!"



"What forms?" snapped Sarka. "Quickly!"



"Cubes! Thousands and millions of cubes, and the cubes themselves are

forming into larger cubes, some square, some rectangular! In the midst

of these formations are others, mostly columnar, each column consisting

of cubes which have coalesced into the larger form from the same small

cubes! The columnar formations are topped by globes which emit an

ethereal radiance!"



"Listen!" Sarka's voice was vibrant with excitement. "Spokesmen of the

Gens, make sure that every individual member of your Gens is fully

equipped with flying clothing including belts and ovoids--prepared for

an indefinite stay outside on the roof of the world! Get your people out

swiftly, keeping them in formation! Keep about you those people of Dalis

whom I sent you, and understand before you break contact with your

Beryls, that instructions received from these people come from me! In

turn, after you have quitted the hives, anything you wish to say to me


Faintly, fearfully, came the answer.



"We hear, O Sarka!"



"Shift the blue column away from the Earth! Do not interfere as we

return to our orbit about the sun! Obey, or I combine the total

knowledge of Mars, the Earth, and the Moon in an attack against you and

your Martian ally! Inform your ally that their people will not return,

that the Earth has need of them--but that two Gens of Earth will be

received by Martians in perfect amity, and these Gens allowed biding

places on Mars! Unless your ally obeys, the Martians in my hands will be

destroyed!"



In an hour the answer came, the snarling thought-answer of Dalis.



"We hear! We obey! But Dalis is never beaten while he lives! His day

will come!"



       *       *       *       *       *



Sarka found himself feeling even a little sorry for sorely beaten Dalis;

but his face was grim as he sent another command to the people of Dalis

who had passed through the life-source of the Moon.



"Take command of the cubes, and force them to repair the damage which

has been done to the dwellings of men--to repair them completely, over

all the face of the Earth!"



As the glowing people hurried to obey, Sarka softly asked his father:



"But what shall we do with the Martians?"



Sarka the Second smiled.



"Release them and send them to the lowest level where, guarded by the

cubes, they will be set to constructing fireballs like those in which

they arrived for the use of Earth if Dalis, or the Martians, ever attack

again! And, son...."



"Yes, O my father?" said Sarka softly.



"I have another suggestion for the employment of the cubes! Let them

build aircars to be used by the Gens of Prull and of Klaser, as

transportation to Mars whenever you are ready for them to go!"



