

_More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand

for Clayton Magazines._



       *       *       *       *       *









VOL. III, No. 2 CONTENTS AUGUST, 1930





COVER DESIGN      H. W. WESSOLOWSKI

    _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "The Planet of Dread."_



THE PLANET OF DREAD      R. F. STARZL           147

    _A Stupid Blunder--and Mark Forepaugh Faces a Lifetime of Castaway

     Loneliness in the Savage Welter of the Planet Inra's Monster-ridden

     Jungles._



THE LORD OF SPACE        VICTOR ROUSSEAU        158

    _A Black Caesar Had Arisen on Eros--and All Earth Trembled at His

     Distant Menace._



THE SECOND SATELLITE     EDMOND HAMILTON        175

    _Earth-men War on Frog-vampires for the Emancipation of the Human Cows

     of Earth's Second Satellite._ (A Novelet.)



SILVER DOME              HARL VINCENT           192

    _In Her Deep-buried Kingdom of Theros, Phaestra Reveals the Amazing

     Secret of the Silver Dome._



EARTH, THE MARAUDER      ARTHUR J. BURKS        210

    _Deep in the Gnome-infested Tunnels of the Moon, Sarka and Jaska Are

     Brought to Luar the Radiant Goddess Against Whose Minions the

     Marauding Earth Had Struck in Vain._  (Part Two of a Three-Part

     Novel.)

saturated with moisture. Even the fire pellets could not make it burn.



"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"



The six-shooter! He had forgotten it. He jerked it from its holster

and pointed it at the red throat, emptied all the chambers. He saw the

flash of yellow flame, felt the recoil, but the sound of the

discharges was drowned in the Brobdignagian tumult. He drew back his

arm to throw the useless toy from him. But again that unexplainable,

senseless "hunch" restrained him. He reloaded the gun and returned it

to its holster.



"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"



A thought had been struggling to reach his consciousness against the

pressure of the unbearable noise. The fire pellets! Couldn't they be

used in some way? These small chemical spheres, no larger than the end

of his little finger, had long ago supplanted actual fire along the

frontiers, where electricity was not available for cooking. In contact

with moisture they emitted terrific heat, a radiant heat which

penetrated meat, bone, and even metal. One such pellet would cook a

meal in ten minutes, with no sign of scorching or burning. And they

had several hundred in one of the standard moisture-proof containers.



       *       *       *       *       *



As fast as his fingers could work the trigger of the dispenser

Forepaugh dropped the potent little pellets down the bellowing throat.

He managed to release about thirty before the bellowing stopped. A

veritable tornado of energy broke loose at the foot of the tree. The

giant maw was closed, and the shocking silence was broken only by the

thrashing of a giant body in its death agonies. The radiant heat,

penetrating through and through the beast's body, withered nearby

vegetation and could be easily felt on the perch up the tree.



Gunga was slowly recovering. His iron constitution helped him to rally

from the powerful blow he had received, and by the time the jungle was

still he was sitting up mumbling apologies.

Thither all those who had opposed the establishment of the World

Federation, together with all persons convicted for the fourth time of

a felony, had been transported, to superintend the efforts of these

dumb, unhuman Moon dwellers. For it had been discovered that the Moon

craters were extraordinarily rich in gold, and gold was still the

medium of exchange on Earth.



To supplement the vestigial atmosphere, huge stations had been set up,

which extracted the oxygen from the subterranean waters five miles

below the Moon's crust, and recombined it with the nitrogen with

which the surface layer was impregnated, thus creating an atmosphere

which was pumped to the workers.



Then a curious discovery had been made. It was impossible for human

beings to exist without the addition of those elements existing in the

air in minute quantities--neon, krypton, and argon. And the ships that

brought the gold bars back from the Moon had conveyed these gaseous

elements there.



       *       *       *       *       *



The droning of the sixteen atomic motors grew louder, and mingled with

the hum of gyroscopes. The ladder was drawn up and the port hole

sealed. On the enclosed bridge Nat threw the switch of durobronze that

released the non-conducting shutter which gave play to the sixteen

great magnets. Swiftly the great ship shot forward into the air. The

droning of the motors became a shrill whine, and then, growing too

shrill for human ears to follow it, gave place to silence.



Nat set the speed lever to five hundred miles an hour, the utmost that

had been found possible in passing through the earth's atmosphere,

owing to the resistance, which tended to heat the vessel and damage

the delicate atomic engines. As soon as the ether was reached, the

speed would be increased to ten or twelve thousand. That meant a

twenty-two hour run to the Moon Colony--about the time usually taken.



He pressed a lever, which set bells ringing in all parts of the ship.

"I was a young man. I seized the reins of power. The survivors--these

old men--were disillusioned and docile. I made myself absolute. I

brought Moon men and women to Eros to serve us as slaves. But in a few

years the last of my father's old compatriots will have died, and thus

it was I conceived of conquering Earth and having men to obey me. For

fifteen years I have been experimenting and constructing apparatus,

with which I now have Earth at my mercy.



"But I shall need assistance, intelligent men who will obey me and aid

me in my plans. That is why I saved you and the other officers of

your ether-lines. If you will join me, you shall have the highest post

on Earth under me, Nathaniel Lee, and those others shall be under

you."



       *       *       *       *       *



Axelson paused, and, loathing the man though he did, Nat was conscious

of a feeling of pity for him that he could not control. He saw his

lonely life on Eros, surrounded by those phantom humans of the past,

and he understood his longing for Earth rule--he the planetary exile,

the sole human being of all the planetary system outside Earth,

perhaps, except for his dwindling company of aged men.



"To-day, Nathaniel Lee," Axelson went on, "my life was recast in a new

mould when I saw the woman you have brought with you. I did not know

before that women were beautiful to look on. I did not dream that

creatures such as she existed. She must be mine, Nathaniel Lee.



"But that is immaterial. What is your answer to my offer?"



Nat was trying to think, though passion distorted the mental images as

they arose in his brain. To Axelson it was evidently incomprehensible

that there would be any objection to his taking Madge. Nat saw that he

must temporize for Madge's sake.



"I'll have to consult my companions," he answered.


that was accorded them, this is no place to speak. Nat's journey with

Madge from the center of the city, in what was the old Borough of

Westchester, to his home in the suburb of Hartford, was a continual

ovation.



Crowds lined the air-route, and every few miles, so thick was the

air-traffic, he was forced to hover and address the cheering

multitudes. Hartford itself was _en fete_, and across the main road

the City Bosses had hung an old-fashioned banner, strung from house to

house on either side, bearing the legend: For World President:

NATHANIEL LEE!



Nat turned to Madge, who was seated beside him silently. "Ever hear of

'getting married?'" he asked.



"Of course I've heard of it," replied the girl indignantly. "Do you

think I'm as dumb as that, Nat Lee? Why, those old-fashioned novels

are part of the public schools' curriculum."



"Pity those days can't come back. You ought to be a World

Presidentess, you know," said Nat. "I was thinking, if we registered

as companionates, I could take you into the White House, and you'd

have a swell time there taking X-rays on visiting days."



"Well," answered Madge slowly. "I never thought of that. It might be

worth trying out."









The Second Satellite



_By Edmond Hamilton_



[Illustration: _The city of the frog-men!_]



[Sidenote: Earth-men war on frog-vampires for the emancipation of the

human cows of Earth's second satellite.]





Norman and Hackett, bulky in their thick flying suits, seemed to fill

the little office. Across the room Harding, the field superintendent,

contemplated them. Two planes were curving up into the dawn together

from the field outside, their motors thunderous as they roared over

the building. When their clamor had receded, Harding spoke:



"I don't know which of you two is crazier," he said. "You, Norman, to

propose a fool trip like this, or you, Hackett, to go with him."



Hackett grinned, but the long, lean face of Norman was earnest. "No

doubt it all sounds a little insane," he said, "but I'm convinced I'm



The machine was withdrawn, Norman and Hackett were released, and the

frog-men, with their black force-pistols watchfully raised, withdrew,

the door clanging. The room settled back to quietness, the green men

stretching in lassitude on the metal bunks around it. The two fliers

crouched down near the door, shuddering nausea and weakness still

holding them.



Norman found that Hackett was laughing weakly. "To think that

twenty-four hours ago I was in New York," he half-laughed,

half-sobbed. "On Earth--Earth--"



The other gripped his arm. "It's horrible, Hackett, I know. But it

isn't instant death, and we've still a chance to escape. Hell, can

damn frog-men keep us here? Where's your nerve, man?"



A voice beside them made them turn in amazement. "You are men from

Earth?" it asked, in queerly accented English. "From Earth?"



       *       *       *       *       *



Astonishment held them as they saw who spoke. It was one of the green

men in the room, who had settled down by their side. A tall figure

with superb muscles and frank, clean countenance, his dark eyes afire

with eagerness.



"English?" Norman exclaimed. "You know English--you understand me?"



The other showed his teeth in a smile. "I know, yes. I'm Sarja, and I

learned to speak it from Fallas, in my city, before the Ralas caught

me."



"Fallas--" Norman repeated, puzzled; then suddenly he flamed. "By God,

he means Fellows!"



"Fallas, yes," said the other. "From the sky he fell into our city in

a strange flying-boat that was smashed. He was hurt but we cared for

him, and he taught me his speech, which I heard you talking now."



"Then Fellows is in your city now?" asked Hackett eagerly. "Where is

that?"



"Across this sea--back in the hills," the other waved. "It is far from

the sea but I was rash one day and came too near the water in my

flying-boat. The Ralas were out raiding and they saw me, caught me,

together, striking shells exploding nothingness about them. The Ralas

were fighting like demons.



The merged, terrific combat lasted but moments; could last but

moments. Norman, his gun's magazine empty, seemed to see the mass of

struggling ships splittering, diverging; then saw that the black craft

were dropping, plummeting downward toward the waves! The Ralas,

stunned by that minute of terrific combat, were fleeing. Muffled cries

and cheers came from about him as the glittering flying-boats of the

green men shot after them. They crashed down into the waters and

curved deeply into their green-depths, toward the gigantic dome.



       *       *       *       *       *



Ahead the Rala boats were in flight toward their city, and now their

pursuers were like sharks striking after them. There in the depths the

force-guns of black and glittering boats alike were spitting, and

giant waves and underwater convulsions rocked pursued and pursuers as

the exploding shells annihilated boats and water about them. The

tunnel! Its round opening yawned in the looming wall ahead, and Norman

saw the Rala craft, reduced to scores in number, hurtling into it, to

rouse all the forces of the great amphibian city. Their own boats were

flashing into the opening after them. He glimpsed as he glanced back

for a moment the larger craft with the great force-bombs veering aside

behind them.



It was nightmare in the water-tunnel. Flashing beams of the craft

ahead and waters that rocked and smashed around them as in flight the

Ralas still rained back force-shells toward them in a chaos of action.

Once the frog-men turned to hold them back in the tunnel, but by sheer

weight the rushing ships of the green men crashed them onward. Boats

were going into nothingness all around them. A part of Norman's brain

wondered calmly why they survived even while another part kept his gun

again working, with refilled magazine. Fellows and Sarja were

grotesque shapes beside him. Abruptly the tunnel curved upward and as

they flashed up after the remaining Rala craft their boats ripped up

"Pretty deep, Tommy. But we can get an idea by dropping a stone and

counting the seconds until it strikes."



       *       *       *       *       *



He played the light of the flash over the floor and soon located a

smooth round stone of the size of a baseball. This he tossed over the

rim of the pit and awaited results.



"Good grief!" exclaimed Tommy. "It's not falling!"



What he said was true, for the stone poised lightly over the opening

and drifted like a feather. Then slowly it moved, settling gradually

into oblivion. Frank turned the flash downward and they watched in

astonishment as the two-pound pebble floated deliberately down the

center of the shaft at the rate of not more than one foot in each

second.



"Well, I'll be doggoned," breathed Frank admiringly. "Leland has done

it. He has conquered gravity. For, in that pit at least, there is no

gravity, or at any rate not enough to mention. It has been almost

completely counteracted by some force he has discovered and now we

know how to follow him down there. Come on Tommy, let's go!"



And, suiting action to his words, Frank jumped into the mouth of the

pit where he bobbed about for a moment as if he had jumped into a

pool of water. Then slowly he sank from view, and Tommy followed him.



       *       *       *       *       *



It was a most unique experience, that drop into the heart of the

mountain. Practically weightless, the two young men found it quite

difficult to negotiate the passage. For the first hundred or more feet

they continued to bump about in the narrow shaft and each sustained

painful bruises before he learned that the best and simplest method of

accommodating himself to the strange condition was to remain

with rapidly moving vehicles, the roof-tops with air-craft. Then

suddenly the scene darkened; a deep rumbling came from the sea. As

they watched in fascinated wonder, a great chasm opened up through the

heart of the city. Tall buildings swayed and crumbled, falling into

heaps of twisted metal and crushed masonry and burying hundreds of the

populace in their fall. The confusion was indescribable, the uproar

terrific, and within the space of a very few minutes the entire city

was a mass of ruins, fully half of the wrecked area having been

swallowed up by the heaving waters of the ocean.



       *       *       *       *       *



Phaestra stifled a sob. "Thus it began," she stated. "Trovus was

first--the city you just saw--then came three more of the cities of

the western coast in rapid succession. Computations of the scientists

showed that the upheaval was widespread and that the entire continent

was to be engulfed in a very short time. The exodus began, but it was

too late, and only a few hundred people were able to escape the

continent before it was finally destroyed. The ocean became the tomb

of two hundred millions. The handful of survivors reached the coast of

what is now North America. But the rigors of the climate proved severe

and more than three-quarters of them perished within a few days after

their planes landed. Then the rest took to the caves along the shore,

and for a while were safe."



She manipulated the controls once more and there was a quick shift to

another coast, a rugged, wave-beaten shore. Closer they drew until

they observed a lofty palisade that extended for miles along the

barren waterfront. They saw a fire atop this elevation and active men

and women at various tasks within the narrow circle of its warmth. A

cave mouth opened at the brink of the precipice near the spot they

occupied.



Then came a repetition of the upheaval at Trovus. The ocean rushed in


CHAPTER XI



_Escape--and Dalis' Laughter_



But Sarka was not to be so easily beaten. There still remained an

infinite number of possible changes of speed by manipulation of ovidum

by vibration set up by the Beryls, without which this flight from the

beginning would have been impossible. But for two hours, while the

white robed men of Cleric fought against the car of the crimson

splashes to prevent the capture of the daughter of their

Spokesman--and died by hundreds in the grip of those grim

tentacles--Sarka was forced to labor with the Beryls until

perspiration bathed his whole body and his heart was heavy as he

foresaw failure. And failure meant death or worse for Jaska.



But at the end of two hours, while the men of Cleric fought like men

inspired against the aircar of the crimson slashes, a cessation in the

outward speed of the earth could be noted. At the end of three hours

the body of Jaska, all this time fighting manfully to attain to

landing place on the Earth, was at last bulking larger; but the

tentacles of the aircar were groping after her, reaching for her,

striving to catch and clasp her to her death.



The two Sarkas watched and prayed while the might of the Beryls,

traveling at top speed, fought against the force of whatever was used

by the Moon-men to compel the Moon to withdraw. Still the men of

Cleric fought that single car, and died by hundreds in the fighting.

White robed figures which became shriveled and black in the grip of

those tentacles.



       *       *       *       *       *



Countless of the men of Cleric deliberately cast themselves against

those tentacles, throwing their lives away to give Jaska more leeway

in her race for life.



"Will she make it, father?" queried Sarka in a whisper.



"If the courage and loyalty of her people stand for anything, she will

make it," he replied.

"Let us go, Jaska! Keep behind me, right on my heels!"



Slowly, fighting against something that seemed determined to pull, or

hurl, them outward from the surface of the Moon with each forward

movement they made, they essayed the side of the hill, pausing at the

end of what seemed like hours in a sort of hollow just large enough

to mask their bodies and stared over its edge into one of the craters

of the Moon. Out of the depths of that crater came the discordant

sounds, which now were almost deafening, and out of that crater too

came the almost invisibly bluish column whose outer tip touched the

Earth.



       *       *       *       *       *



Right before them, so close that they all but rested in its shadow,

was one of those monster aircars, its tentacles moving to and fro as

though wafted into motion by some vagrant breeze. But since neither

Sarka nor Jaska could feel the breeze, Sarka knew that it was life

which caused the waving motion of those tentacles of terror.



"Note," he said to Jaska, "that there is a tiny trap-door in the

bottom of the aircar, and that the thing rests on a half-dozen of

those tentacles!"



"I see," came Jaska's reply.



Jaska went on:



"Note the gleaming thing on the ground, right below the aircar? I

wonder what it is?"



They studied the thing there, which seemed to be a huge jewel of some

sort that glittered balefully in the eery light of the Moon. It was,

perhaps, twice the size of an average man's torso, and was almost

exactly cubical in shape. As Sarka studied the thing, he sensed that

feeling flowed out of it--that the cube, whatever it was, was alive!



He tore his glance away from it, and realized that he accomplished the

feat with a distinct effort of will--as though the cube had willed to

hold his gaze, knew he was there. His eyes, peering around the inner

caught at Sarka and at Jaska, and forced them through the door, which

swung shut behind them.



Sarka looked at Jaska who, in this strange new light, had taken on the

color of indigo, and smiled at her. She did not return his smile, but

her eyes looked deeply, somewhat sorrowfully, into his. As though she

asked him a question he could not understand, to which he could

therefore give no answer.



       *       *       *       *       *



Sarka was now conscious of the fact that the heat of their

prison-house--whose character they did not as yet know--was becoming

almost unbearable. They were alone, too, for the Gnomes had not

entered the door of triangle. Sarka partially removed his life mask,

and testing the atmosphere of the place, found it capable of being

breathed without the mask. He signalled mentally to Jaska to remove

her mask, and when the girl had done so he took her in his arms and

kissed her on the lips.



She accepted his caress, but did not return it, and her eyes still

peered deeply into his.



"Well, beloved," he said. "I am terribly sorry. But I did not want you

to come because I was afraid that something of this sort would

happen."



She did not answer.



"What is it, Jaska?" he said at last.



"What did you think of that woman?" she asked softly.



"Beautiful!" he said enthusiastically. "Fearfully beautiful! But did

you see her eyes? She had no more mercy in her heart than if she were

made of stone! And she hated us both the moment she saw us!"



"And you, Sarka--did you hate her, too?"



Sarka stared at her, not comprehending.



"I feel," he said, "that if we are ever to escape her, we must kill

her, or render her incapable of retaining us!"



Then, of her own accord, Jaska placed her arms around Sarka, and gave

reincarnations, Dalis can never atone for this wholesale destruction

of humanity! But I ... I wonder!"



Sarka realized the nicety of the revenge of Dalis upon Jaska and

himself. Dalis had not given the secret to the prisoners, but by his

use of the cubes, he had plunged them into the very heart of the

horror, where they could see the suffering of the people of the Gens.

Then, when they had seen and appreciated the horror of it all, they

would follow the people of the Gens to death!



But Luar had spoken of thrusting them into the base of the Cone!



       *       *       *       *       *



Then they were not for the flames after all! How could it be done? The

globe composed of the cubes had but to transport the prisoners to the

base of the Cone, press against that base, and open to let the

prisoners free--and in the heart of the white-blue column they would

be hurled outward from the Moon, into space. The mere prospect of such

horror caused the perspiration to break forth anew on the body of

Sarka.



But there might be a way.



"I wonder," he asked himself, "if the Earth people in _this_ crater

could read my thoughts in spite of their agonies, if I could get my

thought to them through the globe? I wonder if, reading my thoughts,

they would obey?"



Bit by bit, as parts of a puzzle fall into place, he made his plan,

and his heart beat high with excitement. Jaska bent before him to look

into his eyes, and he knew that she was trying to read his face. She

knew, wise Jaska, that this brilliant lover of hers was making a plan,

and she believed in the sure success of it because it would be _his_!



She smiled at him, her courage high, and waited!



Holding the ray director between his body and that of Jaska, he took a

He vanished, smiling his same queer smile. Bell worked frantically. He

saw Ortiz coming back, pausing to light a cigarette, and taking up a

hatchet, with which he attacked a packing case.



"They are outside, Senor," he called. "They have found the signs of

the car entering, and now are discussing."



He plucked something carefully from the packing box and went leisurely

back toward the door. Bell began to load the food and stores into the

cabin, with sweat streaming down his face.



There was the sound of a terrific explosion, and Bell jumped savagely

to solid ground.



"Keep loading! I'll hold them back!" he snapped to Jamison.



But when he went pounding to the back of the warehouse he found Ortiz

laughing.



"A hand grenade, Senor," he said in wholly unnatural levity. "Among

the subjects of The Master. I believe that I am going mad, to take

such pleasure in destruction. But since I am to die so shortly, why

not go mad, if it gives me pleasure?"



       *       *       *       *       *



He peered out a tiny hole and aimed his automatic carefully. It

spurted out all the seven shots that were left.



"The man who poisoned me," he said pleasantly. "I think he is dead. Go

back and make ready to leave, Senor Bell, because they will probably

try to storm this place soon, and then the police will come, and

then.... It is amusing that I am the one man to whom those enslaved

among the city authorities would look for The Master's orders."



Bell stared out. He saw a small horde of people, frantically agitated,

milling in the cramped and unattractive little street of Buenos Aires'

waterfront. Sheer desperation seemed to impel them, desperation and a

frantic fear. They surged forward--and Ortiz flung a hand grenade. Its

explosion was terrific, but he had perhaps purposely flung it short.

Bell suddenly saw police uniforms, fighting a way through to the front



The plane in which he and Jamison and Paula had escaped in was

floating out in the harbor. It was unmistakable. A larger, bulkier

seaplane floated beside it. The buzzing in the air the night

before.... The arrival of the plane had been telephoned from Cape

Virgins. Through a glass, perhaps, even its alighting had been

watched. And a big seaplane had gone out to bring it back. Footprints

in the sand would lead toward the lighthouse. There would be plenty of

men to storm that, if necessary, to take the three fugitives. But they

would have found only Paula. It was quite possible that the plane had

only been sent for after Bell and Jamison had been seen to land in

Punta Arenas. And Paula in The Master's hands would explain Ribiera's

amusement perfectly.



       *       *       *       *       *



Bell found Jamison looking unhurriedly for him. And Jamison glanced at

his utterly white face and said softly:



"We want to get where we can't be seen, to talk. There's the devil to

pay."



"No use hiding," said Bell. His lips seemed stiff. "Paula--"



"Hide anyway," snapped Jamison. He fairly thrust Bell into an alleyway

between two houses and thrust two rounded objects beneath his loose

fitting coat. "Two grenades. I have two more. The boat we came in is

taken--"



"So is the plane," said Bell emotionlessly.



"And there is a sign, in English, posted where we tied it up. The sign

says, '_The Senores Bell and Jamison may recover their boat on

application to The Master, and may also receive news of a late

traveling companion from him._"



"We're known," Bell told him--and amazingly found it possible to smile

faintly--"Ribiera met me on the street and spoke to me and laughed and

went on."



Jamison stared. Bell's manner was almost entirely normal again. Then

Jamison shrugged.



"The sense of what you're saying," he observed wryly, "is that we're

amphibian and brought it and Paula on to the city. Bell, from the

shore, was seen to be investigating the larger one. He came rowing

back.



His head appeared above the dock edge.



"All right," he said tiredly. "The Master has a rule requiring all his

ships ready for instant flight. Very useful. The big plane is fueled

and full of oil. We'll go out to it and take off."



       *       *       *       *       *



Jamison lifted The Master to his feet and with a surge of muscles

swept him down to the flooring of the dock.



"Paula first," said Bell, "and then The Master, and then you,

Jamison."



"One moment," said The Master reproachfully. "It would be cruel not to

let me reassure my subjects. I will give an order."



Bell and Jamison listened suspiciously. But he spoke gently to the

coachman.



"You will tell the deputies," said The Master in Spanish, "that a

month's supply of medicine for all my subjects will be found in my

laboratory. And you may tell them that I shall return before the end

of that time."



The coachman's eyes filled with a passionate relief.



"Now," said The Master placidly, "I am ready for our little jaunt."



Paula descended the ladder and seated herself in the bow of the boat.

Bell covered The Master grimly with his automatic as he descended,

with surprising agility. Jamison came down last, and resumed his

former grip on The Master's collar. Bell rowed out to the big plane.



       *       *       *       *       *



Jamison kept close watch while Bell started the four huge motors and

throttled them down to warming up speed, and while he hauled up the

anchor with which the huge seaplane was anchored.



The tight little cabin began to reek of the tobacco. Paula pressed

close to Bell.



"But--Charles," she asked hopefully, "is--is it really all right,

now?"



"I think so," said Bell, frowning. "Our job's over, anyhow. We go up

the Chilean coast and find that navy boat. We turn our stuff over to

them. They'll take over the task of seeing that every doctor,

everywhere in South America, knows how to get The Master's poison out

of the system of anybody who's affected. Some of them won't be

reached, but most of them will. I looked at his formula. Standard

drugs, all of them. There won't be any trouble getting the news

spread. The Master's slaves will nearly go crazy with joy. And," he

added grimly, "I'm going to see to it that the Rio police take back

what they said about us. I think we'll have enough pull to demand that

much!"



He was silent for a moment or so, thinking.



"I do think, Jamison," he said presently, "we did a pretty good job."



Jamison grunted.



"If--if it's really over," said Paula hopefully, "Charles--"



"What?"



"You--will be able to think about me sometimes," asked Paula

wistfully, "instead of about The Master always?"



Bell stared down at her.



"Good Lord!" he groaned. "I have been a brute, Paula! But I've been

loving you--" He stopped, and then said with the elaborate politeness

and something of the customary idiotic air of a man making such an

announcement. "I say, Jamison, did you know Paula and I were to be

married?"



Jamison snorted. Then he said placidly:



"No. Of course not. I never dreamed of such a thing. When did this

remarkably original idea occur to you?"



He puffed a huge cloud of smoke from his cigar. It was an unusually

vile cigar. Bell scowled at him helplessly for a moment and then said

wrathfully:



"Oh, go to hell!"



And he bent over and kissed Paula.



(_The End._)



[Advertisement: IN THE NEXT ISSUE

sir--America's foremost scientist, though she may never realize it,"

with a piping chuckle. "To-night there will be a great banquet in your

honor. Meanwhile, suppose I show you to your quarters."



Nettled, fuming, though outwardly calm, Kendrick permitted himself to

be escorted from the laboratory to an ornate apartment on one of the

lower floors.



There Cor left him, with the polite hint that he would find plenty of

attendants handy should he require anything.



Alone now, in the midst of this vast, nightmarish metropolis, he paced

back and forth, back and forth--knowing the hideous fate that

threatened the world but powerless to issue one word of warning, much

less avert it.



       *       *       *       *       *



Kendrick was still thinking and brooding along these lines when he saw

the door of the apartment swiftly open and close again.



Someone had entered, invisible!



Backing away, he waited, tense. Then, suddenly, his visitor

materialized. With a gasp, he saw standing before him a beautiful

girl.



She was a young woman, rather, in her early twenties. Not one of these

pigmies of the disc either, but a tall, slender creature of his own

world.



Her hair was dark, modishly bobbed. Her eyes were a deep, clear brown,

her skin a warm olive. And she was dressed as though she had just

stepped off Fifth Avenue--which indeed she had, not so long ago, as

he was soon to learn.



"I hope I haven't startled you too much, Mr. Kendrick," she said, in a

rich, husky murmur, "but--well, there wasn't any other way."



"Oh, I guess I'll get over it," he replied with a smile. "But you have

the advantage of me, since you know my name."



Hers was Marjorie Blake, she told him then.



"Not the daughter of Henderson Blake?" he gasped.



"Yes," with a tremor, "his only daughter."




Chagrined, embarrassed, they took their leave, headed back toward the

railroad station.



"Of all the utterly silly things!" declared Marjorie, as they walked

along. "Why do you suppose it didn't work?"



Kendrick didn't reply at once. When he did, his voice was grave.



"Because the disc has gone!" he said. "We are outside its zone of

influence. That's my hunch, at least, and I think we'd better act on

it."



"You mean...?"



"I mean our escape has probably caused them to hurry their plans.

They're probably over New York right now. I think we'd better get

there the quickest possible way."



       *       *       *       *       *



The result was that when the train came, they remained on it only to

Tucson. There they chartered a fast plane and started east at once.



At sunset the following day the plane swooped out of the sky and slid

to rest on the broad grounds of the Blake estate at Great Neck.



As Kendrick stepped from the cabin and helped Marjorie down, a tall,

distinguished-looking man with graying hair and close-cropped mustache

came hurrying toward them.



"Daddy!" she cried, rushing into his arms. "Oh, Daddy--Daddy!"



Even without this demonstration. Kendrick would have recognized

Henderson Blake from pictures he had seen recently in the papers.



Now he was introduced, and Blake was gripping his hand warmly.



"I don't quite know what this is all about, Professor," he heard the

great financier say. "Marjorie's telegram last night was as cryptic as

it was over-joying. But I do know that I owe you a deep debt of

gratitude."



"Yes, and you owe our pilot about a thousand dollars, too!" put in the

daughter of the house, clinging to her father's arm. "Please give him

a check--then we'll go inside and I'll explain all about it."



"A matter very much easier dispatched than my debt to Professor

But Kendrick never completed that sentence--for now whistles all over

the metropolitan area, rising from the generating plants, announced

the ominous hour.



It was high noon. The ultimatum had expired.



Lifting tense faces to the disc, they waited. Would that stupendous

ray be hurled back upon itself? Or would it sear through their

makeshift defense, plunging them and the whole great metropolis into

oblivion?



Suddenly, cataclysmically, the answer came.



There burst a withering whirlwind from the disc. It struck that mighty

concave cathode of interlaced waves above the city. There followed an

instant's clash of titanic forces. Then the cathode triumphed, hurled

it back.



Rocked by a concussion as of two worlds in impact, blinded by a glare

that made the sunlight seem feeble in comparison. Marjorie and

Kendrick clung together, while the disc grew into a satellite of

calcium fire in the sky.



Presently, as the conflagration waned, they opened their eyes.

Gravely, but with deep thanksgiving, they searched each other's faces.

In them they read deep understanding, too, and a new hope.



"I think we'd better go and find father," she said at length, quietly.



"I think so too!" he agreed.



As they headed toward the laboratory, a fine, powdery dust, like

volcanic ash was falling.



It continued to fall until the city streets were covered to a depth of

an inch or more.



Thus passed the menace of Vada.



[Advertisement: NO ONE MUST FORGET



_That he has a standing

invitation to_



"Come Over In

'THE READERS' CORNER'"



_And join in the general

discussion of stories,

authors, likes, dislikes--everything

pertaining

to_



ASTOUNDING STORIES



_And Science-Fiction_]









The Readers' Corner



_A Meeting Place for Readers of_ Astounding Stories



[Illustration:]





_To the Rescue_



     Dear Editor:



     I hope you can see fit to print this letter in the July

