ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE-NOVELS

MONTHLY, WIDE WORLD ADVENTURES, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, RANGELAND

LOVE STORY MAGAZINE, WESTERN ADVENTURES, _and_ FOREST AND STREAM



_More Than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand

for Clayton Magazines._



       *       *       *       *       *









VOL. II, No. 2 CONTENTS MAY, 1930





COVER DESIGN                  H. W. WESSOLOWSKI



    _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in_ "_The Atom-Smasher_."



INTO THE OCEAN'S DEPTHS       SEWELL PEASLEE WRIGHT         151



    _To Save Imee's Race of Men-Who-Returned-To-The-Sea, Two Land-Men

     Answer the Challenge of the Dreaded Rorn, Corsairs of the Under-Seas._



MURDER MADNESS                MURRAY LEINSTER               166



    _Murder Madness! Seven Secret Service Men Had Completely Disappeared.

     Another Had Been Found a Screaming, Homicidal Maniac, Whose Fingers

     Writhed Like Snakes. So Bell, of the Secret "Trade," Plunges into

     South America After The Master--the Mighty, Unknown Octopus of Power

     Whose Diabolical Poison Threatens a Continent!_ (_Beginning a

     Four-part Novel._)



BRIGANDS OF THE MOON          RAY CUMMINGS                  195



    _Gregg and Anita Risk Quick, Sure Death in a Desperate Bluff on the

     Ruthless Martian Brigands._ (_Part Three of a Four-part Novel._)



THE JOVIAN JEST               LILITH LORRAINE               228



Their coming caused a sort of panic in the village, and the three

noseless creatures strode down the principal street grinning hugely,

glancing from right to left, and showing their sharp pointed teeth.

They looked more like sharks than like human beings.



A committee of five gray old men met the visitors, and conducted them

into one of the larger houses. Insolently, the leader of the three

shark-faced creatures made demands, and the scene changed swiftly to

make clear the nature of those demands.



       *       *       *       *       *



The village was to give a number of its finest young men and women to

the shark-faced people; about fifty of each sex, I gathered, to be

servants, slaves, to the noseless ones.



The scene shifted quickly to the interior of the house. The old men

were shaking their heads, protesting, explaining. There was fear on

their faces, but there was determination, too.



One of the three envoys snarled and came closer to the five old men,

lifting a knife threateningly. I thought for an instant that he was

about to strike down one of the villagers; then the picture dissolved

into another, and I saw that he was but threatening them with what he

could cause to happen.



The fate of the village and the villagers, were the demands of the

three refused, was a terrible one. Hordes of the noseless creatures

came swarming. They tore the houses apart, and with their long, slim

white weapons they killed the old men and women, and the children. The

villagers fought desperately, but they were outnumbered. The

shark-skin kirtles of the invaders turned their knives like armor, and

the sea grew red with swirling blood that spread like scarlet smoke

through the water. Then, this too faded, and I saw the old men

cowering, pleading with the three terrible envoys.



The leader of the three shark-faced creatures spoke again. He would

give them time--a short revolving swirl of gray that indicated only a

Imee, watching me through the lights of my head-piece, nodded and

smiled.



Yes, this was the very hulk by which she had been swimming when the

shark had attacked her, the shark which had been the cause of the

accident. She darted on to show me the very rib upon which her head

had struck, stunning her so that she had drifted, unconscious and

storm-tossed, to the shore of Mercer's estate.



I studied the wreck. It was battered and tilted on its beam ends, but

I could still make out the high poop that marked it as a very old

ship.



"A Spanish galleon, Mercer," I conjectured.



"I believe so." And then, in pictured form, for Imee's benefit, "It

has been here while much time passed?"



"Yes." Imee came darting back to us, smiling. "Since before the

Teemorn, my people were here. A Rorn we made prisoner once told us his

people discovered it first. They went into this strange skeleton, and

inside were many blocks of very bright stone." She pictured quite

clearly bars of dully-glinting bullion. Evidently the captive had told

his story well.



       *       *       *       *       *



"These stones, which were so bright, the Rorn took to their city,

which is three swims distant." How far that might be, I could not even

guess. A swim, it seemed, was the distance a Teemorn could travel

before the need for rest became imperative. "There were many Rorn, and

they each took one stone. And of them, they made a house for their

leader." The leader, as she pictured him, being the most hideous

travesty of a thing in semi-human form that the mind could imagine:

incredibly old and wrinkled and ugly and gray, his noseless face

seamed with cunning, his eyes red rimmed and terrible, his teeth

gleaming, white and sharp, like fangs.



"A whole house, except the roof," she went on. "It is there now, and

it is gazed at with much admiration by all the Rorn. All this our

hundred and fifty miles off the Venezuelan coast, aren't we?"



       *       *       *       *       *



Ortiz turned and faced him. Bell was shocked at the expression on the

small man's face. It was drained of all blood, and its look was

ghastly. But the rather fine dark eyes were steady.



"We are," agreed Ortiz, very steadily indeed, "but I--I have received

a radiogram that some airplane should fly near this ship, and it would

amuse me to hear it."



Bell frowned at the fog.



"I've done a good bit of flying," he observed, "and if I were flying

out at sea right now, I'd dodge this fog bank. It would be

practically suicide to try to alight in a mist like this."



Ortiz regarded him carefully. It seemed to Bell that sweat was coming

out upon the other man's forehead.



"You mean," he said quietly, "that an airplane could not land?"



"It might try," said Bell with a shrug. "But you couldn't judge your

height above the water. You might crash right into it and dive under.

Matter of fact, you probably would."



Ortiz's nostrils quivered a little.



"I told them," he said steadily, "I told them it was not wise to

risk...."



       *       *       *       *       *



He stopped. He looked suddenly at his hands, clenched upon the rail. A

depth of pallor even greater than his previous terrible paleness

seemed to leave even his lips without blood. He wavered on his feet,

as if he were staggering.



"You're sick!" said Bell sharply. Instinctively he moved forward.



The fine dark eyes regarded him oddly. And Ortiz suddenly took his

hands from the railing of the promenade deck. He looked at his fingers

die as well as this man did. But I'm afraid I shan't."



But Paula said:



"The airplane can be heard outside. It seems to be moving on the

surface."



       *       *       *       *       *



And ten minutes later the plane loomed up out of the mist, queerly

ungainly on the surface of the water. Its motors roared impatiently as

if held in leash. It swung clumsily about, heading off out of sight in

the fog to turn. It came back, sliding along the top of the water with

its wing-tip floats leaving alternate streaks of white foam behind

them. A man stood up in its after cockpit.



Bell crowded to the rail. The man--goggled and masked--held up a

package as if to fling it on board. Bell watched grimly. But he saw

that the pilot checked himself and looked up at the upper deck. Bell

craned his neck. The wireless operator was waving wildly to the

seaplane. He writhed his hands, and held his hand to his head is if

blowing out his brains, and waved the plane away, frantically.



The pilot of the plane sat down. A moment later its motors roared more

thunderously. It is not safe to alight on either land or water when

fog hangs low, but there is little danger in taking off.



The seaplane shot away into the mist, its motors bellowing. The sound

of its going changed subtly. It seemed to rise, and grow more

distant.... It died away.



Bell halted at the top of the companion-ladder and saw the wireless

operator, with a crooked, nervous grin upon his face.





CHAPTER III



Bell saw what he was looking for, out in the throng of traffic that

filled the Avenida do Acre, in Rio. He'd seen it over the heads of the

crowd, which was undersized, as most Brazilian crowds are, and he

managed to get through the perpetual jam on the mosaic sidewalk and



"_Si_," said Ribiera, suddenly adverting to insolence. "You are

clever, Senhor Bell. Where did you learn of _yagué_?"



       *       *       *       *       *



Bell inhaled leisurely. His muscles were tense, but he gave no outward

sign. Instead, he sat down comfortably upon the arm of a chair facing

Ribiera's. The only way to meet insolence is with equal insolence and

a greater calm.



"Ah!" said Bell pleasantly. "So you found out it didn't work, after

all!"



Ribiera's eyes contracted. He became suddenly enraged.



"You are trifling with me," he said furiously. "Do you know the

penalty for that?"



"Why, yes," said Bell, and smiled amiably. "A dose of--er--poison of

The Master's private brand."



It was a guess, but based on a good deal of evidence. Ribiera turned

crimson, then pale.



"What do you know?" he demanded in a deadly quietness. "You cannot

leave this place. You are aware of that. The people here--guests and

servants--are my slaves, the slaves of The Master. You cannot leave

this place except also as my slave. I will have you bound and given

_yagué_ so that you cannot fail to tell me anything that I wish to

know. I will have you tortured so that you will gladly say anything

that I wish, in return for death. I will--"



"You will," said Bell dryly, "drop dead with seven bullets in your

body if you give a signal for anyone to attack me."



       *       *       *       *       *



Ribiera stared at him as his hand rested negligently in his coat

pocket. And then, quite suddenly Ribiera began to chuckle. His rage

vanished. He laughed, a monstrous, gross, cackling laughter.



"You have been my guest for two days," he gasped, slapping his fat



"My father--shot himself," she said briefly. "I have no particular

hope of doing better. But I shall not be Ribiera's slave."



She remained quite still. Bell moved away. He hurried. There was thick

jungle ahead, a section of the Gardens that is painstakingly preserved

untouched and undisturbed, that visitors to the capital of Brazil may

observe a typical sample of the virgin interior. He dived into that

jungle as if in flight.



And very shortly after, two men dived in after him. They hesitated,

these men, because your policeman of Rio does not like to injure his

uniform, and there are many thorns in jungle growths. But they entered

it, having first drawn small glittering weapons. And then from the

jungle came silence.



       *       *       *       *       *



It seemed to be silence. But there may have been some small unusual

noises. It would not be easy to tell if they were unusual or not,

because there are peculiar flashes of charm in certain Brazilian

institutions. The preservation of the spot of jungle itself is one.

Another is the fact that in the Gardens all manner of wild things

live at large and provide unexpected and delightful surprises to the

usually foreign visitors.



So there were noises, after a bit. Such noises as some grunting wild

thing might have made, perhaps. But they might also have been the

gasping of a man as breath was choked out of him.... And there was a

cracking sound a little later, which might--of course--have been any

one of any number of accidental and perfectly natural causes. And it

might have been a man upon whom another man had hurled himself, when

the second man landed on his jaw. And thrashing noises a little later

might have been anything.



But after what seemed a long time, Bell emerged. Alone. He was

breathing quickly, and there were scratches on his face and hands

which--well, which might have been made by thorns. He went swiftly

"A month," said Grantline. "A month at the most. If we can hold them

off that long--even in a week or two help may come."



Another day. A tenseness fell on us all, despite the absorption of our

feverish activities. To conserve the power, the camp was almost dark,

we lived in dim, chill rooms, with just a few weak spots of light

outside to mark the watchmen on their rounds. We did not use the

telescope,[3] but there was scarcely an hour when one or the other of

the men was not sitting on a cross-piece up in the dome of the little

instrument room, casting tense searching gaze into the black, starry

firmament. A ship might appear at any time now--a rescue ship from

Earth, or the brigands from Mars.



       *       *       *       *       *



Anita and Venza during these days could aid us very little save by

their cheering words. They moved about the rooms, trying to inspire

us; so that all the men, when they might have been humanly sullen and

cursing their fate, were turned to grim activity, or grim laughter,

making a joke of this coming siege. The morale of the camp now was

perfect. An improvement indeed over the inactivity of the former

peaceful weeks!



[Footnote 3: An old-fashioned telescope, of limited field and needing

no electronic power, would have been immensely serviceable to

Grantline, but his was of the more modern type.]



Grantline mentioned it to me. "We'll put up a good fight, Haljan.

These fellows from Mars will know they've had a task before they ever

sail off with this treasure."



I had many moments alone with Anita. I need not mention them. It

seemed that our love was crossed by the stars, with an adverse fate

dooming it. And Snap and Venza must have felt the same. Among the men

we were always quietly, grimly active. But alone.... I came upon Snap

once with his arms around the little Venus girl. I heard him say:

as the blood-stream cleared in my veins.



I was victor. Coniston was dead. I saw now, down on the lower

staircase below the camp-ledge, another goggled figure lying huddled.

That was Wilks, no doubt. Coniston had doubtless caught him there,

surprised him, killed him.



My attention, as I stood gazing, went down to the camp-buildings.

Another figure was outside! It bounded along the ledge, reached the

foot of the ascending staircase at the top of which I was standing.

With agile leaps, it came mounting at me!



Another brigand! Miko? No, it was not large enough to be Miko, not

nearly large enough. I was still confused. I thought of Hahn. But that

was absurd. Hahn was in the wreck of the _Planetara_. One of the

stewards then....



The figure came up the staircase recklessly, to assail me. I took a

step backward, bracing myself to receive this new antagonist.



And then I saw Miko! Unquestionably he: for there was no mistaking

his giant figure. He was down on the camp-ledge, running toward the

foot of the staircase, coming up to help this other man in advance of

him.



I thought of my revolver. I turned to try and find it. I was aware

that the first of my assailants was at the stairhead. I could not

locate at once where the revolver had fallen. I would be caught,

leaped upon from behind. Should I run?



I swung back to see what the oncoming brigand was doing. He had

reached the summit. His arms went up, legs bent under him. With a

sailing leap he launched for me. I could have bounded way, but with a

last look to locate the revolver, I braced myself for the shock.



The figure hit me. It was small and light in my clutching arms. I

recall I saw that Miko was half-way up the staircase. I gripped my

assailant. The audiphone contact brought a voice.



"Gregg! Is it you?"



It was Anita clutching at me!





CHAPTER XXVI



_At Bay_



"Gregg, you're safe!"



Or had Miko rejoined his party, left his camp and come here like

ourselves to climb Archimedes? Or was our assumption wholly

wrong--perhaps the brigand ship would not land near here at all?



Sweeping around from the Mare Imbrium, the plains were less

smooth--the shattered, crag-littered, crater-scarred region beyond

which the distant Apennines raised their terraced walls. The little

crater which concealed the Grantline camp was off that way. There was

nothing to mark it from here.



"Gregg, do you see anything up there? There seems to be a blur."



       *       *       *       *       *



Her sight, sharper than mine, had picked it out. The descending

brigand ship! A faintest tiny blur against the stars, a few of them

occulted as though strangely an invisible shadow were upon them. A

growing shadow, materializing into a blur--a blob, a shape faintly

defined. Then sharper until we were sure of what we saw. It was the

brigand ship. It came dropping slowly, silently down.



We crouched on the little ledge. A cave-mouth was behind us. A gully

was beside us, a break in the ledge; and at our feet the wall dropped

sheer.



We had extinguished our little lights. We crouched, silently gazing up

into the stars.



The ship, when first we distinguished it was central over Archimedes.

We thought for a while that it might descend into the crater. But it

did not; it came sailing forward.



I whispered into the audiphone--whispering by instinct, as though out

here in all this airless desolation someone might overhear us!



"It's coming over the crater."



Her hand pressed my arm in answer.



I recalled that when, from the _Planetara_, Miko had forced Snap to

signal this brigand band on Mars, Miko's only information as to the

whereabouts of the Grantline camp was that it lay between Archimedes

and the Apennines. That was Grantline's first message to us, and Miko

We deposited our Erentz suits carefully in a corner of the cubby. We

might need them so suddenly! Then we swaggered out to join the

brigands working on the deck.





CHAPTER XXX



_Desperate Plans_



The deck glowed lurid in the queer blue-greenish glare of Martian

electro-fuse lights. It was in a bustle of ordered activity. Some

twenty of the crew were scattered about, working in little groups.

Apparatus was being brought up from below to be assembled. There was a

pile of Erentz suits and helmets, of Martian pattern, but still very

similar to those with which Grantline's expedition was equipped. There

were giant projectors of several kinds, some familiar to me, others

of a fashion I had never seen before. It seemed there were six or

eight of them, still dismantled, with a litter of their attendant

batteries and coils and tube-amplifiers. They were to be mounted here

on the deck, I surmised; I saw in the dome-side one or two of them

already rolled into position at the necessary pressure portes.



Anita and I stood outside Potan's cubby, gazing around us curiously.

The men looked at us, but none of them spoke.



"Let's watch from here a moment," I whispered. She nodded, standing

with her hand on my arm. I felt that we were very small, here in the

midst of these seven-foot Martian men. I was all in white, the costume

used in the warm interior of the Grantline camp. Bareheaded, white

silk _Planetara_ uniform jacket, broad belt and tight-laced trousers.

Anita was a slim black figure beside me, somber as Hamlet, with her

pale boyish face and wavy black hair.



The gravity being maintained here on the ship we had found to be

stronger than that of the Moon--rather more like Mars.



"There are the heat-rays, Gregg."



       *       *       *       *       *



A pile of them was visible down the deck-length. And I saw caskets of

But down in the Earthglow at the crater-base, Miko's lights had not

vanished! I had missed! An error in the range? Abruptly I knew it was

not that. Miko's lights were still there. His signals still coming.

And I remarked now a faint distortion about them, the glow of his

little group of hand-lights faintly distorted and vaguely shot with a

greenish cast. Benson curve-lights! I realized it.



My thoughts whirled in the few seconds while I stood there at the

tower window. Miko had feared he might summarily be fired upon. He had

gone back to his camp, equipped all his lights with the Benson curve.

He was somewhere at the crater-base now. But not where I thought I saw

him! The Benson curve-light changed the path of the light-rays

traveling from him to me--I could not even approximate his true

position!



Anita was plucking at me. "Gregg, come."



"I can't hit him!" I gasped.



Should I try the flash-signal to Earth? Did we dare linger here? I

stood another few seconds fascinated at the window. I saw Potan down

in the confusion of the deck, training a telescope. He had shouted up

violently at his duty-man here not to fire again.



And now he suddenly let out a roar. "I can see them! It's Miko! By the

Almighty--his giant stature--Brotow, look! That's not an Earthman!"



He flung aside his little telescope finder. "Disconnect that

projector! It's Miko down there! This Haljan is a trickster! Where is

he? Braile--Braile, you accursed fool! Are Haljan and the girl up

there with you?"



But the duty-man lay weltering in his blood at our feet.



I had dropped back from the window. Anita and I crouched for an

instant in confusion, fumbling with our helmets.



The ship rang with the alarm. And amid the turmoil we could hear the

shouts of the infuriated brigands swarming up the tower ladder after

us!





CHAPTER XXXII



_A Speck Amid the Stars_



I was only inactive a moment. I had thought Anita would have on her


discovered in Farmer Burns' corn-patch. When the rumor began to gain

credence that it was some sort of meteor from inter-stellar space,

reporters, scientists and college professors flocked to the scene,

desirous of prying off particles for analysis. But they soon

discovered that the Thing was no ordinary meteor, for it glowed at

night with a peculiar luminescence. They also observed that it was

practically weightless, since it had embedded itself in the soft sand

scarcely more than a few inches.



By the time the first group of newspapermen and scientists had reached

the farm, another phenomenon was plainly observable. The Thing was

growing!



Farmer Burns, with an eye to profit, had already built a picket fence

around his starry visitor and was charging admission. He also flatly

refused to permit the chipping off of specimens or even the touching

of the object. His attitude was severely criticized, but he stubbornly

clung to the theory that possession is nine points in law.



       *       *       *       *       *



It was Professor Ralston of Princewell who, on the third day after the

fall of the meteor, remarked upon its growth. His colleagues crowded

around him as he pointed out this peculiarity, and soon they

discovered another factor--pulsation!



Larger than a small balloon, and gradually, almost imperceptibly

expanding, with its viscid transparency shot through with opalescent

lights, the Thing lay there in the deepening twilight and palpably

shivered. As darkness descended, a sort of hellish radiance began to

ooze from it. I say hellish, because there is no other word to

describe that spectral, sulphurous emanation.



As the hangers-on around the pickets shudderingly shrank away from the

weird light that was streaming out to them and tinting their faces

with a ghastly, greenish pallor, Farmer Burns' small boy, moved by

some imp of perversity, did a characteristically childish thing. He

picked up a good-sized stone and flung it straight at the nameless

mass!



       *       *       *       *       *



"It was Mr. Tode's soul a-burnin'," squeaked Granpop Dawes. "I allus

said that feller'd come to no good end."



The group shook their heads and remained silent. It was clear that, if

they did not share Granpop Dawes's opinion, at least they considered

it not without the bounds of plausibility. Lucius Tode had created a

bad impression among the natives.



       *       *       *       *       *



Jim Dent stooped and picked up something lying imbedded in the mud at

the edge of the black pool, and slipped it into his pocket. He had

been present at the inquest and had gone back to Columbia. That had

been five years before.



Professor McDowd, the palaeontologist, had identified the object Jim

had found as the milk molar of _merychippus insignis_, the miocene

representative of the modern horse. And that had made Jim Dent think

furiously.



The catastrophe must have been a gigantic one to have flung up that

fossil tooth from strata far beneath the level of the earth's surface.

More, there were even traces of archaean deposits around the borders

of the pool, whose depth, in the center, was ascertained to be 164

feet.



Black, silent, uninhabited, unstirred save by a passing breeze, the

pool had remained those five years past. The spot was shunned as

haunted or accursed by the superstitious country folks. Dense

underbrush had grown up around it.



Periodically, Jim had gone out to visit it. That was how he had come

to invest in a private plane. It was only an hour to the

flying-fields, and less than an hour from there to Peconic Bay. What

he expected to achieve he did not know. In the back of his mind was

the belief that some day he would light upon some clue that would

tell something of the unusual catastrophe.



And then that afternoon he had been shaken to the depths when a

message came to him in Lucille's voice over the telephone:

discharge. The vibrating mechanism grew steady. Above them, out of the

grayness, a moon disclosed itself, then the pin-points of stars. All

about them was an immense, sandy waste.



"Know where we are, Dent?" came Tode's chuckle.



Jim was not sufficiently master of himself to attempt to answer.



"We are on what will be the Russian steppes some fifty thousand years

ahead of us in time," grinned Tode. "This is an interlude between two

ice ages. Observe how pleasantly warm the climate is, for Russia.

Unfortunately the receding glaciers carried off the top-soil, which

accounts for the barrenness of the district, but in another century

this country will be overgrown with ferns, and inhabited by the

mastodon and wild horse, and a few enterprising palaeolithic hunters,

who will come in to track them down and destroy them with their stone

axes."



       *       *       *       *       *



"I think you're the same sort of damn liar you always were, Tode,"

answered Jim--but without conviction. There was something terrific

about that desolation. Nothing within a thousand miles of Long Island

corresponded to it.



"You'll be convinced pretty quickly, when you see my specimen,"

answered Tode. "I let him off here on the way to the pool. He's not

exactly presentable, and when I got the idea of picking up Lucille and

taking her back with me, I thought it best not to let her see him. He

didn't want to be let off. Was afraid I wouldn't pick him up again,

and I'll admit it was a matter of pretty careful reckoning. But this

is the place, almost to the yard.



"Yes, I've done some close reckoning, Dent, but the cleverest part of

the business was letting old Parrish think he'd got away from me. I

knew he'd telephone Lucille. You know, I always had the brains of the

outfit, Dent," he continued, with a smirk of self-satisfaction.



He looked out of the boat. "And here, if I'm not mistaken, comes my

mean that man was wholly master of his destiny. He can't and he never

will.



"There's an unknown quantity comes in, Parrish. It is God, and that's

what's going to beat him in the end."



"I've not been as idle as Tode thinks," said Parrish, with a senile

leer. "I know more about the Atom Smasher than he dreams of. He thinks

me just an old fool, the remnants of whose brains are useful to him in

his laboratory. That's why he's kept me alive so far. He'll find out

his mistake," he chuckled. "I have something Tode doesn't dream of."



Suddenly Parrish's air of intense seriousness vanished. He chuckled

and fumbled in his rags. Jim felt a small object like a lever pressed

into his hand and then withdrawn.



"It's death, Dent," chuckled old Parrish. "The concentrated essence of

the destructive principle. It's a lever I fitted into a concealed

groove in the Atom Smasher unknown to Tode. This lever has a universal

joint and connects with a hidden chamber, and when pulled will

catapult the annihilated components of a small quantity of uranium in

any direction we desire. The release of the slumbering energy of this

uranium will produce an explosion of proportions beyond the wildest

dreams of engineers--perhaps, one great enough to throw the Earth out

of its orbit!"



"Uranium!... Breaking up its components!" gasped Jim. "You mean you

can actually do that?"



"Yes!" chuckled Parrish. "I'm keeping it for the day when Tode becomes

a god. When he's steadied the boat in time-space and halted the march

of the past, and when he's got Lucille--then, Dent, I shall so pull

the lever that it will release the energy straight at Tode--and

destroy the Atom-Smasher, ourselves, and even, perhaps, the whole

Earth!"



And he burst into a peal of such wild laughter that Jim realized the

old man's wits were gone.



       *       *       *       *       *






Nowhere was there a speck of dirt to be seen. Vehicles moved

soundlessly along the wide streets on either side of this central

meeting-place, and the whole city was roofed with glass, through which

could be seen the brilliant moon and stars--invisible from the

mist-filled valley without.



       *       *       *       *       *



Soft garments of white wool clothed men and women alike, fashioned

something like togas, but cut short at the knee, leaving the lower

part of the leg bare and disclosing the sandaled feet. The hair was

long and flowed about the shoulders. But what struck Jim most forcibly

was the look of utter gentleness and benignity upon these faces.



"I guess we've fallen into pretty good hands after all," he whispered

to Parrish.



But one of the dignitaries upon the platform, an elderly man with a

face reminiscent of William Jennings Bryan in his inspired moments,

was leaning forward out of his curved chair and addressing the old

man, and, to Jim's astonishment, Parrish was answering.



But these were not the liquid accents of the Atlanteans. The words

resembled the barking of a dog, and across Jim's brain there suddenly

flashed the explanation. The dignitary was speaking in the tongue of

the Drilgoes, which Parrish, of course, would have learned in his five

years of captivity.



Suddenly Parrish turned to Jim. "He wants to know where we come from,"

he said. "I've told him from a far country. He thinks we're

ambassadors from some of the parts of Europe that the Atlanteans who

sailed away some years ago landed at. It's no use trying to

explain--they don't seem to have succeeded in inventing an Atom

Smasher for themselves."



Jim nodded, and the colloquy went on and on, while the Atlanteans

listened with languid interest, their kind and smiling faces seeming

to exude benignity. At length the session seemed to have ended.



Parrish wore a wide grin. "Everything's coming right, dear," he told

Drilgo stumbled and fell headlong with a howl of terror. But

headlong--inside.



What happened was practically instantaneous. A sudden whir of the

mechanism, a violet glow from the funnel, the smell of chlorine--a

flash of blinding blue-white light. The Atlantean guards had fired--a

quarter-second too late!



The thump, thump of the electrical discharge died away. The four were

in the boat, whirling away through space. Cain was rising to his

knees, a woe-begone expression on his face. And there was a clean cut,

with charred, black edges along one side of the boat, showing how near

the Atlanteans had come to success.



       *       *       *       *       *



The relief, after the hideous suspense of the past days, was almost

too much for the three white people. "We're free, we're going back

home!" cried Jim exultantly, as he caught Lucille in his arms. And she

surrendered her lips to his, while the tears streamed down her checks.

Old Parrish, at the instrument board, looked up, smiling and

chuckling. Even Cain, understanding that they were not to be hacked to

bits with knives, gurgled and grinned all over his black face.



"How long will it take us to get back?" Jim asked Parrish after a

while.



"I--I'm not quite sure, my boy," the old man replied. "You see--I

haven't quite familiarized myself with the machine as yet."



"But we'll get back all right?" asked Jim.



"Well, we--we're headed in the right direction," answered Parrish.

"You see, my boy, it's rather an intricate table of logarithmic

calculations that that scoundrel has pasted on this board. The great

danger appears to be that of coming within the orbit of the giant

planet Jupiter. Of course, I'm trying to keep within the orbit of the

Earth, but there is a danger of being deflected onto Pallas, Ceres, or

one of the smaller asteroids, and finding ourselves upon a rock in

space."



Jim and Lucille looked at Parrish in consternation. "But you don't



Each flash of lurid light from the volcano disclosed further masses of

Drilgoes, armed with their stone spears, apparently assembling for the

attack. Whether Tode had summoned them before the Atlanteans offered

him the rulership of the city, or whether Jim's own plan had been

communicated to them by some telepathic process, it was impossible to

guess, but there was not the least doubt but that they were prepared

to follow him.



Cain nudged Jim and began strapping the other pair of wings about his

body. Jim saw that the energy was supplied by two tiny, lights burning

in the base, cold fire, stored energy whose strength he did not guess.

For, when Cain took him by the hand, and motioned to him to slide the

knob in the groove, he was hurled skyward like a rocket.



There followed a delirious hour. Tossing and tumbling like a pigeon in

a gale, Jim by degrees acquired mastery over the apparatus. At the end

of the hour he could fly almost as well as Cain, who, like a black

guardian angel kept beside him, reaching out a hand when he

overbalanced, and pulling him out of aerial side-slips.



       *       *       *       *       *



Suddenly Cain motioned toward the volcano, and started toward it in a

rocketlike swoop. Jim understood. The Drilgoes were ready for the

attack upon Atlantis.



Jim dropped to earth, ran back into the cave, and picked up the rifle

and the carton of ammunition. He filled the magazine, and, with the

rifle on his arm, rose into the air again. Cain was circling back,

uttering weird cries of distress at finding his master absent.



"It's all right, Cain," said Jim. "I'm here."



Side by side they flew steadily toward the base of the great cone,

which was pouring out a fan-shaped stream of fire. Rumblings shook the

earth; it was evident that another upheaval was in course of

preparation. The long column of the Drilgoes could be seen, extending



"You remember how poor Cain seemed to take great interest in the Atom

Smasher. There's no way of telling what had been going on in that

brain of his, but it looks to me like he'd known that that lever meant

death. It was sealed up in wax, and Tode had got it free on the way

out of Atlantis.



"Well--this it what I made out from examining the thing afterward.

Cain had been monkeying with the lever. He'd pried loose one of the

wires that hooked to the transformer, and short-circuited it, not

knowing, of course, just what he was doing. The result was that when

Tode pressed that lever, instead of blowing the whole contraption to

pieces, he got a couple of billion volts of electricity through his

body, combined with a larger amperage than has ever been imagined. It

burned him to a few grease spots. He simply--vanished. You don't

remember what you did at the moment, boy?"



"I don't seem to remember anything," said Jim.



"Well, your response was an automatic one. You jumped him. Luckily

you were too late, for Tode vanished like that!" Old Parrish snapped

his fingers. "But you must have got into the field of magnetic

force--any way, you were almost electrocuted. Lucille and I thought

you were dead for hours.



"We laid you down and set a course for home. I used those dial

numberings Tode had given me. He'd said they wouldn't work, but he'd

lied. They did work. They brought us back to the Vanishing Place.



"We carried you out, and then I saw your eyelid twitch. We worked over

you with artificial respiration till it looked as if there was a

chance for you. Then I shut off the power and let the waters rush in

over the Atom Smasher, and swam ashore. And there it lies at the

bottom of the pool, and may it lie there till the Judgment Day."



       *       *       *       *       *

