

"London from above," says a _Daily Mail_ correspondent, "is

gloriously, tenderly, wistfully beautiful." We rather gather that it

is the lid of Carmelite House that gives it just that little note of

wistfulness.



       ***



"How to Prepare Marble Beef" is the subject of a contemporary's "Hints

to Young Housekeepers," We had always supposed that that sort of thing

could be safely left to the butcher.



       ***



The demobilised members of a Herefordshire band have all grown too

big for their uniforms. The contra-bombardon man, we understand, also

complains that his instrument is too tight round the chest.



       ***



"The one unselfish friend of man is the dog," said Sir FREDERICK

BANBURY, M.P. A less courageous man would certainly have mentioned the

PRESIDENT of the United States.



       ***



A correspondent who signs himself "Selborne" writes to inform us that

about 9 A.M. last Thursday he noticed a pair of labourers building

within a stone's-throw of Catford Bridge.



       ***



A Hendon man has just completed sixty-two years in a church choir. Few

choir-boys can boast of such a record.



       ***



One of the young recruits who joined the army last week in Dublin is

seven feet two inches in height. It is satisfactory to note that he is

on our side.



       ***



It is reported that seven cuckoos have been heard in different parts

of the country during the past week. It is felt in some quarters that

it may be just one cuckoo on a route march.



       ***



"Bacon Free Yesterday," says a headline. Somebody must have left the

door open.



       ***



An American scientest claims to have discovered a harmless germ likely


       ***



A morning paper tells us that FRISCO of New York, who is alleged to

have invented the Jazz, has declined an invitation to visit London.

Coward!



       ***



By the way, they might have told us whether the offer to FRISCO came

from London or New York. Meanwhile we draw our own conclusions.



       ***



With reference to the horse that recently refused at the third jump

and ran back to the starting-post, we are asked to say that this only

proves the value of backing horses both ways.



       ***



"No man," says a writer in a daily paper, "can sit down and see a girl

standing in a crowded Tube train." This no doubt accounts for so many

men closing their eyes whilst travelling.



       ***



Mr. DEVLIN, M.P., has communicated to the Press a scheme for solving

the Irish problem. This is regarded by Irish politicians generally as

a dangerous precedent.



       ***



A defendant in a County Court case heard in London last week stated in

his evidence that two of his daughters were working and the other was

a typist at the Peace Conference.



       *       *       *       *       *



[Illustration: "HOW PLEASANT IT IS, MY DEAR HORACE, TO PLAY WITH ONE'S

TOYS WITHOUT INCURRING THE RISK OF HAVING ONE'S ENJOYMENT MARRED BY

THE TRAGIC DISCOVERY OF THEIR TEUTONIC ORIGIN!"]



       *       *       *       *       *



COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.



From a placard in a shop-window:--


    Faced with a rude financial deadlock,

  Is bent on mulcting every male

    Who shirks the privilege of wedlock;

  With such a hurt Time cannot deal,

    And Lethe here affords no tonic;

  Nothing but Death can hope to heal

    What looks as if it must be chronic.



  And yet a solace soothes my brow,

    Making my air a shade less gloomy:--

  Six shillings in the pound is now

    The figure out of which they do me;

  But, were we man and wife to-day

    (So close the Treasury loves to link 'em),

  A grievous super-tax they'd lay

    On our coagulated income.



  I dare not even try to guess

    What is the charge for being single;

  It may be more, it may be less

    Than if we twain had chanced to mingle;

  But though with thrice as heavy a fist

    They fall on bachelors to bleed 'em

  Yet, when I think of what I've missed,

    I'll gladly pay the cost of Freedom.



  O.S.



       *       *       *       *       *



TEA-CUP TWADDLE.



BY THEODOSIA.



_(With acknowledgments to the kind of paper that wallows in this kind

of thing.)_



Fringe and tassels, tassels and fringe! That is the burden of what I

have to say to you this time; for indeed and indeed this is to be a

fringe-and-tassel season, and you must cover yourself all over with

fringe and the rest of yourself with tassels, or else "to a nunnery

go."



_A propos_, I popped into the dressing-room of the ever-delightful


Passed the beautiful young Countess of Southshire walking near

Belgrave Square yesterday. As usual, she was _parfaitement mise_. Was

sorry for _her_ sake, but glad for my own, to hear her sneeze twice,

for she is considered to have easily the most musical sneeze in

London. Talk of sneezing, during the 'flu epidemic Madame Fallalerie

has been giving a course of lessons, "How to sneeze prettily" (twenty

guineas the course), and her reception-rooms in Bond Street have been

simply packed.



Absolutely _everybody_ seemed to be lunching at Kickshaw's yesterday!

Lord and Lady Oldacres were at a table with some of their children,

which reminds me of the fact that family parties are rather good form

just now. It's not at all unusual to see husbands and wives together,

and children, both small and grown-up, are quite _often_ with their

parents.



       *       *       *       *       *



MR. PUNCH'S "SPORPOT."



The sum of £91 11_s_. 0_d_. generously collected by various schools in

South Africa for the "Sporpot" (savings-box) fund, which was suggested

in these pages by Mr. Punch's friend, the late Mr. BERTRAM SMITH of

Beattock, has been distributed amongst the Belgian refugees who have

spent four and a half years of exile at Beattock and have just left to

return to their own country.



       *       *       *       *       *



[Illustration: A SPRING DEFENSIVE.



JOHN BULL. "I DON'T SAY IT QUITE MEETS THE CASE, BUT _(cheerfully)_

IT'S A SIZE LARGER THAN I THOUGHT IT WAS GOING TO BE."]



       *       *       *       *       *



[Illustration: _Sandy (at Victoria Station)_. "GIE ME _THE PEEBLES




  He may be correct, the observer who says

    Henceforth there'll be many a rover

  Ambitious to go, in American phrase,

    To the edge of beyond and some over;

  But I, for my part, harbour other designs;

    My wanderlust's wholly abated;

  With travel on even luxurious lines

    I'm more than sufficiently sated.



  Having roamed into Egypt, according to plan,

    Along with my fellows (a merry Co.),

  Having carried a pack from Beersheba to Dan

    And footslogged from Gaza to Jericho,

  I'll not seek a fresh inaccessible spot

    In order to slaughter a new brute;

  To me inaccessible's anywhere not

    To be found on a regular tube route.



  For barbarous jungles or desolate streams

    I don't give a tuppenny damlet;

  For, candidly, London revisited seems

    A very endurable hamlet;

  Though others may find her excitements too mild

    And sigh for things gladder or madder,

  I'm fully resolved that the call of the wild

    Shall find me as deaf as an adder.



       *       *       *       *       *



    "Trouser maker wanted; constant."--_Jewish Chronicle_.



A very desirable quality in a composer of continuations.



       *       *       *       *       *



"STRANGE BIGAMY STORY.



    "MUNITIONER SAID TO HAVE POSED AS A WEALTHY MAN."



    _Evening News_.



The strange thing, of course, is that he should have needed to pose.


had decided. Seizing his fireman's axe he rushed off down the street.



The result of this was inevitable. He was dismissed with ignominy

from the Special Constables and was condemned to death, with a

recommendation to mercy, by a court-martial of the Kentish Fencibles.

His old friends among the Men of Kent cut him dead; the tradesmen of

his platoon refused to serve him. He had to leave Ramstairs and he

retired to Ealing. The catastrophe ruined his health. But he still

gets a little solace when, as he wipes the tears from his eyes after

reading the correspondence column of his penny paper, he sees upon his

waistcoat the crossed axes surmounted by a fire bucket, the emblem of

the Veterans' Fire Brigade.



       *       *       *       *       *



[Illustration: _Aunt (guardian of little nephew who has run away)_.

"EVERY COMFORT ALBERT 'AD--INCLUDIN' WHITE MICE IN 'IS BEDROOM."]



       *       *       *       *       *



PARADISE REGAINED.



    "Lady tired of her clothes wishes to sell them all very

    cheaply."--_Pioneer (Allahabad)._

       *       *       *       *       *



    A STAYER.



    "In this race County Cricket was left at least eight lengths and

    yet managed to cover up ground and was only beaten by half a

    week, greatest surprise to all those who noticed it."----_Bombay

    Chronicle_.



We gather that it was only noticed by a few spectators who happened to

be staying on over the week-end.



       *       *       *       *       *

suitable places in which a clerical staff could perform clerical

duties.



Lord HARCOURT begged to suggest that such a disregard of a national

trust was a treachery.



Sir Buffer Stayte said that, although in ordinary times such might be

the case, it was not so in war-time or while the Defence of the

Realm Act was in force. Under Dora's sanction all black was white.

Personally he had every belief in the efficiency of the staffs now

employed in the various public galleries and museums. He had seen them

arrive late and leave early--he meant arrive early and leave late--and

could not sufficiently admire their willingness to put up with the

dismal surroundings of pictures and curiosities.



Mr. ROBERT WITT, one of the Trustees of the National Gallery, said

that it was inconceivable to him as a business man that even if so

many clerks should still be required there was not a more reasonable

place for them than Trafalgar Square.



Sir Thomas Tannin, K.B.E., speaking for his own Government department,

said that it was evident that Mr. WITT did not fully realise the

position. These were historic and abnormal times and abnormal measures

were necessary. We thought in high numbers, and therefore high numbers

of clerks were needed. Trafalgar Square was as conveniently central a

spot as could be found; hence their presence there. It had also been

pointed out by the chiefs of the Government Clerks' Tea Advisory Board

that the facilities for obtaining more water for boiling were unusual

on account of the proximity of the two great fountains. If anybody

could suggest a better place for the accommodation of all these young

ladies he would be glad to know of it. The only suggestion yet made

had reference to buildings which, having been designed for office

work, were obviously unsuitable. Another reason for keeping them on

was their cost. Economy in one direction might lead to economy

in another, and the whole fabric of the now bureaucracy would be

threatened. It was therefore useless to hope for any early change.



Sir SIDNEY LEE pointed out that, owing to the occupation of a large



I cannot conceal from myself that I am a great acquisition to the

Army of Occupation. My knowledge of the language being far and away

superior to that of any other British officer for miles around, I am

looked upon by the natives as a sort of high military authority in

whom they may have the privilege and the pleasure of confiding all

their troubles. According to the intensity of their various desires

I am addressed _crescendo_ as "Herr Ober-Leutenant," or "Herr

Hauptmann," or "Herr Majeur," or "Herr Commandant." They always

approach me in a becomingly servile attitude--cap or hat in hand--and

await with obvious tension my weighty pronouncements. They hide round

corners and wait behind doors or down narrow passages until I come

past, and then they spring out on me.



"What about the coal we are burning? The electric light we are using?

Who is going to pay?" "So-and-so's charlady, who was out obliging

another lady, had a breadknife pinched while she was away from home.

Was it one of my _Soldaten_, perhaps? Did I know anything about it,

and if so, would I punish the evildoer and restore the implement?"



The village expert in calf-delivery wants to know whether, in the case

of the happy event taking place after 9 P.M. (which it usually does),

I would give him permission to leave his home after closing hours, so

that he might assist at the function.



The local yokels of this spot and its neighbouring villages want to

resume their bi-weekly choral society meetings but cannot reach

the rendezvous until 8.45 P.M., which leaves them just a

quarter-of-an-hour to have their practice and to take cover for the

night. "Would the high-well-born be so fearfully gracious as to allow

them to continue until 10 P.M.?"



To be suddenly taken unawares and to have such conundrums volleyed at

you in a strange tongue is apt to be rather exhausting. However I have

a reputation to live up to and must be as frightful as possible.

I find the best thing to do is to refer them to the nearest

notice-board, which reads:--



HALT!






"It was also obvious what our fate would be if we continued in those

marked billets, so we moved out, bag and baggage, into a sunken road

near by and spent the night there in the rain and muck, and were most

uncomfortable. What puzzled us rather was that the Hun did not shell

our old billets that night--that is, nothing out of the ordinary. 'But

that's only his cunning,' we consoled ourselves; 'he knows we know he

knows, and he's trying to lure us back. Ah, no, old friend.'



"So we camped miserably on in that sunken sewer. He dropped a lucky

one through a barn the same afternoon and lobbed a few wides over

during the next night, but again nothing out of the ordinary.



"We were more and more puzzled. Then, just about breakfast-time on

the second morning, in walks de Blavincourt himself, green as to the

complexion and wounded in the arm, but otherwise intact. I leapt upon

him, snarling, 'Where's that map?'



"'I got 'im, Sir,' he gulped, 'safe' (gulp).



"This was his story. He had remembered the corporal shouting

something, but so intent on his work was he that he hardly noticed the

warning until suddenly, to his horror, he perceived a party of Huns

creeping out of a passage _behind him_. He was cut off! They had not

seen him for the moment, so quick as thought he slipped into the

nearest house, turned into a front room--a sort of parlour place--and

crouched there, wondering what to do.



"He was not left wondering long, for the Bosches followed him into

that very house. There was a small table in one corner covered with

a large cloth. Under this de Blavincourt dived, and not a second too

soon, for the Bosches--seven of them--followed him into that very room

and, setting up their machine gun at the window, commenced to pop

off down the street. Charming state of affairs for little de

Blavincourt--alone and unarmed in a room full of bristling Huns with

that fatal map in his possession.



"Sweating all over he eased the map out of his pocket and slowly and


"I was with the Fifth Army last year when the wave swept us. We were

fairly swamped for the moment and all nohow. One evening, retreating

on my own line, I came upon some little village--can't remember the

name just now, but you know the sort of thing--typical Somme hamlet, a

smear of brick-dust with a big notice-board on top, saying, 'THIS IS

LE SARS,' or 'POZIÈRES,' or whatever its name was. Anyway, in this

village I found a Divisional H.Q., four Brigade H.Q.'s, and oddities

of all sorts sitting one on top of t'other waiting for the next thing

to happen. The next thing was a single wounded lancer who happened in

about four in the morning with the glad tidings that Bosch tanks were

advancing on us". Questioned further he admitted that he had

only actually seen one and that in the dark. But it was the

great-grandfather of all tanks, according to the chap; it stood twenty

foot high; it 'roared and rumbled' in its career, and it careered by

steam.



"It wasn't any manner of use assuring him that there wasn't a steam

tank on anybody's front. He said there was, and we couldn't move him.



"'I saw steam coming from it in clouds,' be mumbled, 'and sparks and

smoke.' Then he crumpled slowly on the floor, fast asleep.



"The Divisional General was properly mystified.



"'If only I had a single field-gun or even some gelignite,' he

groaned; then turning to me, 'I must get the strength of this; it

may be some new frightfulness the Hun is springing. You're an old

horse-soldier, I believe? Well, jump on your gee and go scout the

thing, will you?'



"I scratched together a rag and bobtail patrol of grooms and pushed

off just before daybreak. Our people had the edge of the village

manned with every rifle they could collect. A subaltern lying ear to

earth hailed me as I passed. 'It's coming,' he called.



"A quarter of a mile further on I could hear the roaring and rumbling

myself without lying on the road.



"Light was breaking fast, but there were wisps and shreds of fog



[Illustration: STRIKE NERVES.



SHOCKING EXPERIENCE IN OXFORD STREET OF JAMES SIMPKINS, ESQ., A LARGE

EMPLOYER OF LABOUR.]



       *       *       *       *       *



[Illustration: _He (new to the Jazz and eager to learn)._ "WHICH STEP

IS THIS?"]



       *       *       *       *       *



MISTRESS AND MAID.



_(New Style)._



My wife burst into the room, her face aglow with the joy of success.



"Oh, George, isn't it simply splendid?"



"Absolutely top-hole, I am sure, my dear; but supposing you let me

know what it's all about?"



"How silly I am," she murmured as she sank into a chair. "I quite

forgot I had not seen you all day, and it happened just after you left

for the office. You had not been gone five minutes when Jane came up

and gave notice. I determined to be firm and told her she could go

when she liked, and then I marched straight off to Mrs. Smith's

Registry Office. I found the dear old thing just as amiable and ready

to please as ever, but she told me I must not mind if the methods of

her establishment were a bit changed. In the old days, you know, we

used to sit in a small room and interview the servants she wanted

places for. But now the position is reversed, and the servants

interview you and ask you questions. I was told to go in and see a

nice-looking girl. She was not a bit shy and, after asking me to take

a chair, began to put questions--our income? your profession? what

other servants we kept? wages? margarine or butter in the kitchen?

etc.



"She seemed quite satisfied with everything until we came to the

matter of her afternoons out. I said that two a week and every


[Illustration: THE PERIL WITHOUT.]



       *       *       *       *       *



ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.



_Monday, March 24th_.--The Archbishop of CANTERBURY sought from the

Government a clear statement of policy regarding the repatriation of

enemy aliens, and incidentally paid a high tribute to the British

Press, which, we were glad to hear, contains "nobody who desires to

fabricate baseless statements."



He was supported by Lord LAMBOURNE, who as a member of the Advisory

Committee knows all about aliens, and declared that "Repatriate them

all" was a foolish cry, if it meant that we were expected to present

Germany with the British wives and children of the dear deported.



Lord JERSEY, for the Government, desired to treat even Germans justly,

but could not see why anyone should wish in these times to increase

our alien population. His speech did not please a batch of noble

sentimentalists, drawn from both sides, but seemed to give great

satisfaction to Lord LINCOLNSHIRE, who quoted with approval the brave

words on the subject uttered by the LORD CHANCELLOR at the General

Election, before his style had been mollified by the Woolsack.



In the Commons Mr. BONAR LAW regretfully explained that it was

impossible for the Government to do anything to reduce the high prices

now being charged for furniture in the East End. His own experience as

a Cabinet-maker has been entirely confined to the West End.



Nor could the Government take any direct steps to ameliorate the

overcrowding on the Underground railways. But, as it was stated that

large quantities of leather are still being purchased on Government

account, there are hopes that more accommodation for strap-hangers may

shortly be available.



_Tuesday, March 25th_.--The Lords spent three hours of almost

unrelieved gloom in discussing the financial condition of the country.

On that old problem of the economists, "What is a pound?" Lord

D'ABERNON delivered an erudite discourse, from which I gathered that

it was at present about ten shillings and still shrinking. The only

cost of the spirit plus pre-war taxation. The other five-and-sixpence

is made up of interest to manufacturers, insurance and rent; increased

price of bottles and corks; margins of profit to blenders and

bottlers, merchants and other traders; and increase of taxation. By

some oversight nothing appears to have been charged for the extra

water, but no doubt this will be remedied in the next Budget.



_Thursday, March 27th._--To those who remember the debates on the

Parliament Act, _circa_ 1911, it was amusing to hear Lords CREWE and

BUCKMASTER complaining of the unceremonious manner in which the Lords'

amendments to the Rents Bill had been treated in "another place;"

and being entreated not to pick a quarrel with the Commons by those

ancient champions of the Upper Chamber, Lord CURZON and the LORD

CHANCELLOR.



The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER announced the names of the Royal

Commissioners who are to consider how the income-tax can be improved.

Several Members complained that there is only one woman among them,

and that, pending their report (expected some time next year), the

glaring anomaly by which husband and wife are regarded for taxable

purposes as a single entity is apparently to be continued. The idea of

presenting Mr. CHAMBERLAIN with a box for _The Purse Strings,_ in the

hope that it would convert him, has unfortunately been frustrated by

the withdrawal of the play.



Mr. BONAR LAW'S determination to leave the Cippenham question to the

free judgment of the House led (as possibly he anticipated) to its

expressing no judgment at all. Sir DONALD MACLEAN and others served up

a rather insipid _réchauffé_ of Lord DESBOROUGH'S indictment, and Mr.

CHURCHILL repeated Lord INVERFORTH'S defence, but put a little more

ginger into it. Incidentally he mentioned that a prolonged search for

the nonagenarian pensioner had produced nobody more venerable than

a comparative youngster of sixty-five. Deprived of this prop the

Opposition felt unequal to walking through the Lobbies.



       *       *       *       *       *





to know what is being said about them, to enable them to confirm or

disavow these disquieting speculations. The papers simply teem with

secret histories of the week, diaries of omniscient pundits and so

forth, in which these rumours multiply to an extent that staggers the

plain person.



Take the PREMIER to begin with. Is it really true that he has decided,

as the brain of the Empire can only be located in Printing House

Square, to resign office and become home editor of _The Times_,

leaving foreign policy to be controlled by Mr. WICKHAM STEED? Is it

true that he meditates appointing Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN Minister of Fine

Arts? Is it true that he flies every day from Paris to Mentone, to

receive instructions from a Mysterious Nobleman who is shortly to be

raised to ducal honours? Is it true that until quite recently he had

never heard of JOAN OF ARC and thought that VICTOR HUGO was a Roman

emperor?



Then there is Mr. BONAR LAW. He surely ought to know that it is said

by _The Job_ and _The Morning Ghost_ that he informed Mr. SMILLIE,

during one of their recent conversations, that he hoped, in the event

of a general strike, to be allowed to get away to the small island in

the South Pacific which he has purchased as a refuge in case of such a

contingency. Probably such an idea never entered his head. But this

is what he is supposed to be planning. Let him therefore disclaim the

intention promptly and publicly.



Grievous mischief again is being done by the persistent rumours

current about the intention of the LORD CHANCELLOR to take Orders with

the view of becoming Archbishop of Canterbury at the earliest possible

opportunity. There may be absolutely nothing in it. Mr. HAROLD SMITH

scouts the notion as absurd. But very great men do not always confide

in brothers. NAPOLEON, as we know, thought poorly of his.



Lastly, is it true that, although Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN is still

_nominally_ Chancellor of the Exchequer, he is really a prisoner in

the Tower, conveyed under guard to and from the House, and that the

It was perhaps a little unfortunate that _Aïda_ should have been given

on the night of the Guards' march through London, for the parade of

the Pharaoh's scratch soldiery suffered badly by comparison. The

priesthood of Isis, too, furnished more humour than could, I think,

have been designed, and I doubt if even Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH could

have given us anything funnier than the spectacle presented by the

Egyptian monarch when making his announcement of an Ethiopian raid.

Nor shall I easily forget the figure of the King of Ethiopia, with

a head of hair like a Zulu's, and swathed in a tiger-skin. I should

myself have chosen the hide of a leopard, for the leopard cannot

change his spots nor the Ethiopian his skin, and when you get the two

together you have an extraordinarily durable combination.



It would be false flattery to say that Miss ROSINA BUCKMAN quite

looked the part of _Aïda_, or Miss EDNA THORNTON that of _Amneris_,

but they both sang finely, and the orchestra did great work under Mr.

EUGENE GOOSSENS, Sen.



In _Louise_, again, it was the orchestra, cleverly steered by Sir

THOMAS BEECHAM through the difficult score for the choruses, that

sustained us through the banalities of an opera which has only one

dramatic moment--when her father hastens the eviction of _Louise_ by

throwing a chair at her, very well aimed by Mr. ROBERT RADFORD, who

only just missed his mark. I suppose it is hopeless to expect that the

makers of "Grand" Opera (whose sense of humour is seldom their strong

point) will consent to allow the trivialities of ordinary speech in

everyday life ("How do you do?" "Thank you, I am not feeling my

best," and so on) to be said--if they _must_ find expression of some

sort--and not sung.



By way of contrast to the modern realism which makes so unlikely a

material for serious opera, the fantastic irresponsibility of _The

Magic Flute_ came as a great relief. Its simpler music, serenely

sampling the whole gamut of emotions, grave to gay, offered equal

chances (all taken) to the pure love-singing of Miss AGNES NICHOLLS

as _Pamina_, and Mr. MAURICE D'OISLY as _Tamino_, the light-hearted


personality. Then his arch-enemy, _Schomberg_, lieutenant of reserve,

shady hotel-keeper, sensualist and craven, with his insane malice.

To these enter as pretty a company of miscreants as ever sailed the

Southern seas: the sinister _Jones_, misogynist to the point of fine

frenzy, nonconformist in the matter of card-playing, and thereafter

frank bandit with a high ethic as to the superiority of plain robbery

under arms over mere vulgar swindling--a gentleman with a code, in

fact; his strictly incomparable "secretary," _Ricardo_ of the rolling

eyes and gait and deathly treacherous knife, philogynist _sans

phrase_; and _Pedro_, their groom, a reincarnated _Caliban_. It may

also be noted that _Heyst_ has a freak servant, the disappearing

_Wang_, whom the adapter uses, I suppose legitimately, as a kind of

clown. And then, finally, there is a charming and unusual heroine,

_Lena_, still in her teens, but of real flesh and blood, innocent and

persecuted, daughter of a drunken fiddler (deceased), herself fiddling

in a tenth-rate orchestra at _Schomberg's_ hotel, wherein it is not

intended that the music shall be the chief attraction to the guests.



_Heyst_ is Perseus to _Lena's_ Andromeda, carrying her off to his

island out of lust's way. But dragon _Schomberg_ has a sting left in

his malicious tale, told to the unlikely trio of scoundrels, to the

effect that _Heyst_ has ill-gotten treasure hoarded on his island.

Dragon _Ricardo_ persuades his chief to the adventure of attaching

it. A fine brew of passion and action forsooth: _Lena_ passionately

adoring; the aloof _Heyst_ passing suddenly from indifference to

ardour; the bestial _Ricardo_ in pursuit of his startled quarry; and

gentleman _Jones_ intent on non-existent booty and rapt out of him

self by cynical fury at the discovery of an unsuspected woman in

the case. And while Mr. CONRAD in his novel drives all these to a

relentless doom Mr. HASTINGS contrives a happy ending, which goes

perilously near an anticlimax, with the hero on his knees and the

heroine pointing up to heaven and claiming a "victory" quite other

than their creator intended. But then he knew perfectly well that

nobody wants to come to see Miss MARIE LÖHR killed.



[Illustration: THE LAGGARD LOVER. _Lena_ (Miss MARIE LÖHR) _to Heyst_

    "What has to be done is to draw a sanitary cordon to bar the road

    to Bolshevism."--_M. PICHON in the French Chamber_.



The need of this policy is strengthened by the simultaneous

announcement that the Bolsheviks have crossed the Bug on a wide front.



       *       *       *       *       *



    "Mr. ---- has for twenty-one years been illustrating 'A Saunter

    Through Kent.'"--_Sunday Pictorial_.



The artist seems to have caught the spirit of his subject.



       *       *       *       *       *



    "This was seconded by Mr. Mackinder, who said the barque of

    British trade had to steer a perilous course between the scylla of

    the front Opposition bench and the charybodies as represented by

    the Government."--_Western Daily Press_.



This is the first intimation we have yet received of any noticeable

tendency to penurious economy on the part of the Government.



       *       *       *       *       *



[Illustration: THE IRREPRESSIBLE.]



       *       *       *       *       *



THE COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY COLLAR.



Mr. Bingley-Spyker pleaded surprise. He pointed out that he had

been in bed for a fortnight, "laid aside," as he said, "through the

prevailing epidemic." In the meantime the revolution had taken place,

and he had heard nothing about it.



"Well," said the President gruffly, "we carn't 'elp that, can we,




"Yes," said the prisoner mildly. "But observe."



Somewhat diffidently he removed his collar and held it up to view.

"You call this a clean, white, shiny collar? Well, it's not.

Fawn-colour, if you like; speckled--yes; but white--clean? No! Believe

me," continued Mr. Bingley-Spyker, warming to his subject, "it's years

since I've had a genuinely clean collar from my laundry. Mostly they

are speckled. And the specks are usually in a conspicuous position;

one on each wing is a favourite combination. I grant you these can be

removed by a penknife, but imperfectly and with damage to the fabric.

When what I may call the main portion of the collar is affected, the

speckled area may occasionally be concealed by a careful disposition

of one's tie. But not often. The laundress, with diabolical cunning,

takes care to place her trade-mark as near the top rim as possible.

I have not by any means exhausted the subject," he concluded, "but I

think I have said enough to clear myself of this particular charge."



It seemed then to Mr. Bingley-Spyker that all the members of the

Tribunal were shouting together. On the whole he gathered that he had

not improved his position. He had been "attacking the proletariat."



"'Ard-working gyurls," panted a woman-member excitedly, "toilin' and

moilin' at wash-tubs and mangles for the likes of 'im! It's a rope

collar he wants, Mr. President. Make it a 'anging matter, I should."



"Silence, comrades!" commanded the President. "Let me deal with 'im.

Prisoner, the Tribunal finds you guilty of wearing a collar,

contrary to the regulations. Collars are the 'all-marks of a slave

civilization; they 'ave no place in a free state. The sentence of the

Court is that you be committed to a State laundry for ten years, with

'ard labour, principally at mangles. Remove the prisoner."



So they removed Mr. Bingley-Spyker....



He was glad when he woke up to find himself in his own room in his

own Government office at Whitehall, with the afternoon sun streaming

deliciously through the windows. Involuntarily he felt for his collar.



       *       *       *       *       *



OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.



_(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)_



I found myself as much taken with the title of _The Great

Interruption_ (HUTCHINSON) as with any of the dozen short war-stories

that Mr. W.B. MAXWELL has collected in the volume. Yet these are

admirable of their kind--"muffin-tales" is my own name for them, of

just the length to hold your attention for a solitary tea-hour and

each with some novelty of idea or distinction in treatment that makes

the next page worth turning. The central theme of all is, of course,

the same: the War in its effect upon people at the fighting front and

elsewhere. Perhaps it was inevitable that Mr. MAXWELL should betray a

certain faintly cynical amusement in his dealings with the people of

elsewhere. Two of the stories especially--"The Strain of It" and "What

Edie Regretted"--are grimly illustrative of some home-keeping types

for whom the great tragedy served only as an opportunity for social

advancement or a pleasantly-thrilling excuse for futilities. There

will be no reader who will not smilingly acknowledge the justice of

these sketches; not one of us whose neighbours could not supply an

original for them. Fortunately the book has other tales of which the

humour is less caustic; probably of intention Mr. MAXWELL'S pictures

of war as the soldier knew it, its hardships and compensations,

contrast poignantly with the others. On the active-service side my

choice would undoubtedly be for the admirably cheery and well-told

"Christmas is Christmas" (not exactly about fraternization), as

convincing a realisation of the Front at its best as any I remember to

have read in more pretentious volumes.



I am bound to admit that for all my appreciation of Mr. J.D. BERESFORD

as a literary craftsman I did find _The Jervaise Comedy_ (COLLINS)

a bit slow off the mark. Here is a quite considerable volume,

exquisitely printed upon delightful paper, all about the events of

twenty-four hours, in which, when you come to consider it afterwards,

nothing very much happened. The heroine thought about eloping with the

chauffeur, and the onlooker, who tells the tale, thought about

falling in love with the sister of the same. In both cases thought is


longings but all his explicit acquired characteristics, so that when,

with the decent old ape, _Akut_, disguised as his invalid grandmother,

he sails away from England and plunges into the wild he promptly

becomes the terror of the jungle and bites the jugular veins of

hostile man and beast with such a precision of technique that he

becomes king of the ape-folk, as his father, _Tarzan_, had been before

him. Plausibility, even within the limits of his bizarre plan, is

not Mr. BURROUGHS' strong suit, but exciting incident, ingeniously

imagined and staged, with swift movement, undoubtedly is. If the

author wouldn't let his favourites off so easily and would give their

enemies a better sporting chance, he would more readily sustain the

illusion which is of the essence of real enjoyment in this kind of

fantasy. But I imagine the normal human boy will find nothing whatever

to complain of, and to him I chiefly commend this yarn.



       *       *       *       *       *



_The Tale of Mr. Tubbs_ (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is one of those which

hover agreeably between low comedy and refined farce, in a world

which, being frankly to the last degree improbable, makes no urgent

demand for belief. Sometimes indeed (as I have observed before with

Mr. J.E. BUCKROSE) the characters themselves are more credible

than the way in which they carry on. Thus while _Mr. Tubbs_, the

middle-aged and high-principled champion of distress, is both human

and likeable, I was never persuaded that any more real motive than

regard for an amusing situation would compel him to saddle himself

with the continued society of a squint-eyed maid-servant and her

yellow cat, turned adrift through his unfortunate attempts to befriend

them. I think I need not tell you all, or even a part of all, that

happens to _Mr. Tubbs_ and _Belinda_ and the yellow cat after their

arrival as fugitives at the pleasant village of Holmes-Eaton, or do

more than hint at the trials of this poor knight-errant, mistaken

for a burglar and a libertine, till the hour when (the book being

