everywhere--ask them if it is horrible."    This made me melancholy, and somehow set me thinking of the friends  immeasurably distant I had left but yesterday.    What were they doing?  Did they miss me?  I was to have called for my  pay this afternoon, and tomorrow was to have run down South to see that  freckled lady of mine.  What would she think of my absence?  What would  she think if she knew where I was?  Gods, it was too mad, too absurd! I  thrust my hands into my pockets in fierce desperation, and there they  clutched an old dance programme and an out-of-date check for a New York  ferry-boat.  I scowled about on that sunny, helpless people, and laying  my hand bitterly upon my heart felt in the breast-pocket beneath a  packet of unpaid Boston tailors' bills and a note from my landlady  asking if I would let her aunt do my washing while I was on shore. Oh!  what would they all think of me?  Would they brand me as a deserter, a  poltroon, and a thief, letting my name presently sink down in shame and  mystery in the shadowy realm of the forgotten?  Dreadful thoughts! I  would think no more.    Maybe An had marked my melancholy, for presently she led me to a stall  where in fantastic vases wines of sorts I have described before were  put out for all who came to try them.  There was medicine here for  every kind of dulness--not the gross cure which earthly wine effects,  but so nicely proportioned to each specific need that one could  regulate one's debauch to a hairbreadth, rising through all the gamut  of satisfaction, from the staid contentment coming of that flask there  to the wild extravagances of the furthermost vase.  So my stripling  told me, running her finger down the line of beakers carved with  strange figures and cased in silver, each in its cluster of little  attendant drinking-cups, like-coloured, and waiting round on the white  napkins as the shore boats wait to unload a cargo round the sides of a  merchant vessel.    "And what," I said, after curiously examining each liquor in turn, 
