young man should learn," I answered lightly; but then, seeing there was  nothing save the most innocent friendliness in those hazel eyes, I went  on, "but that stern rule may admit of variance.  Only, as it chances, I  have just supped at the public expense.  If, instead, you would be a  sailor's sweetheart for an hour, and take me to this show of  yours--your princess's benefit, or whatever it is--I shall be obliged;  my previous guide is hull down over the horizon, and I am clean out of  my reckoning in this crowd."    By way of reply, the little lady, light as an elf, took me by the  fingertips, and, gleefully skipping forward, piloted me through the  mazes of her city until we came out into the great square fronting on  the palace, which rose beyond it like a white chalk cliff in the dull  light. Not a taper showed anywhere round its circumference, but a  mysterious kind of radiance like sea phosphorescence beamed from the  palace porch. All was in such deathlike silence that the nails in my  "ammunition" boots made an unpleasant clanking as they struck on the  marble pavement; yet, by the uncertain starlight, I saw, to my  surprise, the whole square was thronged with Martians, all facing  towards the porch, as still, graven images, and as voiceless, for once,  as though they had indeed been marble. It was strange to see them  sitting there in the twilight, waiting for I knew not what, and my  friend's voice at my elbow almost startled me as she said, in a  whisper, "The princess knows you are in the crowd, and desires you to  go up upon the steps near where she will be."    "Who brought her message?" I asked, gazing vaguely round, for none had  spoken to us for an hour or more.    "No one," said my companion, gently pushing me up an open way towards  the palace steps left clear by the sitting Martians.  "It came direct  from her to me this minute."    "But how?" I persisted.    "Nay," said the girl, "if we stop to talk like this we shall not be  placed before she comes, and thus throw a whole year's knowledge out." 
