wild things of the woods slinking in for companionship, sagheaded and  frightened.  To me especially they came, until that last evening as I  staggered dying about the streets or sat staring into the remorseless  sky from the steps of Heru's prison house, all sorts of beasts drew  softly in and crowded about, whether I sat or moved, all asking for the  hope I had not to give them.    At another time this might have been embarrassing; then it seemed pure  commonplace.  It was a sight to see them slink in between the useless  showers, which fell like hot tears upon us--sleek panthers with lolling  tongues; russet-red wood dogs; bears and sloths from the dark arcades  of the remote forests, all casting themselves down gasping in the  palace shadows; strange deer, who staggered to the garden plots and lay  there heaving their lives out; mighty boars, who came from the river  marshes and silently nozzled a place amongst their enemies to die in!  Even the wolves came off the hills, and, with bloodshot eyes and  tongues that dripped foam, flung themselves down in my shadow.    All along the tall stockades apes sat sad and listless, and on the  roof-ridges storks were dying.  Over the branches of the trees, whose  leaves were as thin as though we had had a six months' drought, the  toucans and Martian parrots hung limp and fashionless like gaudy rags,  and in the courtyard ground the corn-rats came up from their tunnels in  the scorching earth to die, squeaking in scores along under the walls.    Our common sorrow made us as sociable as though I were Noah, and  Ar-hap's palace mound another Ararat.  Hour after hour I sat amongst  all these lesser beasts in the hot darkness, waiting for the end.  Every now and then the heavy clouds parted, changing the gloom to  sudden fiery daylight as the great red eye in the west looked upon us  through the crevice, and, taking advantage of those gleams, I would  reel across to where, under a spout leading from a dried rivulet, I had  placed a cup to collect the slow and tepid drops that were all now  coming down the reed for Heru. And as I went back each time with that 
