  He knew the way to it, and a servant followed him, carrying his satchel.  Zeb was also escorted to a room--so grand and beautiful that he almost  feared to sit in the chairs or lie upon the bed, lest he might dim their  splendor. In the closets he discovered many fancy costumes of rich  velvets and brocades, and one of the attendants told him to dress  himself in any of the clothes that pleased him and to be prepared to  dine with the Princess and Dorothy in an hour's time.    Opening from the chamber was a fine bath-room having a marble tub with  perfumed water; so the boy, still dazed by the novelty of his  surroundings, indulged in a good bath and then selected a maroon velvet  costume with silver buttons to replace his own soiled and much worn  clothing. There were silk stockings and soft leather slippers with  diamond buckles to accompany his new costume, and when he was fully  dressed Zeb looked much more dignified and imposing than ever before in  his life.    He was all ready when an attendant came to escort him to the presence of  the Princess; he followed bashfully and was ushered into a room more  dainty and attractive than it was splendid. Here he found Dorothy seated  beside a young girl so marvelously beautiful that the boy stopped  suddenly with a gasp of admiration.    But Dorothy sprang up and ran to seize her friend's hand, drawing him  impulsively toward the lovely Princess, who smiled most graciously upon  her guest. Then the Wizard entered, and his presence relieved the boy's  embarrassment. The little man was clothed in black velvet, with many  sparkling emerald ornaments decorating his breast; but his bald head and  wrinkled features made him appear more amusing than impressive.    Ozma had been quite curious to meet the famous man who had built the  Emerald City and united the Munchkins, Gillikins, Quadlings and Winkies  into one people; so when they were all four seated at the dinner table  the Princess said:    "Please tell me, Mr. Wizard, whether you called yourself Oz after this  great country, or whether you believe my country is called Oz after you. 
