"Are you still seeing with your mind's eye?" enquired the Scarecrow.    "Of course; how else could I see it? And we know the thing is true,  because since the time of that interview there is no piglet to be found  anywhere."    [Illustration: EUREKA IN COURT.]    "I suppose, if the cat had been gone, instead of the piglet, your mind's  eye would see the piglet eating the cat," suggested the Scarecrow.    "Very likely," acknowledged the Woggle-Bug. "And now, Fellow Citizens  and Creatures of the Jury, I assert that so awful a crime deserves  death, and in the case of the ferocious criminal before you--who is now  washing her face--the death penalty should be inflicted nine times."    There was great applause when the speaker sat down. Then the Princess  spoke in a stern voice:    "Prisoner, what have you to say for yourself? Are you guilty, or not  guilty?"    "Why, that's for you to find out," replied Eureka. "If you can prove I'm  guilty, I'll be willing to die nine times, but a mind's eye is no proof,  because the Woggle-Bug has no mind to see with."    "Never mind, dear," said Dorothy.    Then the Tin Woodman arose and said:    "Respected Jury and dearly beloved Ozma, I pray you not to judge this  feline prisoner unfeelingly. I do not think the innocent kitten can be  guilty, and surely it is unkind to accuse a luncheon of being a murder.  Eureka is the sweet pet of a lovely little girl whom we all admire, and  gentleness and innocence are her chief virtues. Look at the kitten's  intelligent eyes;" (here Eureka closed her eyes sleepily) "gaze at her  smiling countenance!" (here Eureka snarled and showed her teeth) "mark  the tender pose of her soft, padded little hands!" (Here Eureka bared  her sharp claws and scratched at the bars of the cage.) "Would such a  gentle animal be guilty of eating a fellow creature? No; a thousand  times, no!"    "Oh, cut it short," said Eureka; "you've talked long enough."    "I'm trying to defend you," remonstrated the Tin Woodman.    
