 directly west.  A squirrel, perched in a tree, saw him take this road  and called to him warningly: "Look out!"  But he paid no attention.  An  eagle paused in its flight through the air to look at him wonderingly  and say: "Look out!"  But on he went.    No one can say that Guph was not brave, for he had determined to visit  those dangerous creatures the Phanfasms, who resided upon the very top  of the dread Mountain of Phantastico.  The Phanfasms were Erbs, and so  dreaded by mortals and immortals alike that no one had been near their  mountain home for several thousand years.  Yet General Guph hoped to  induce them to join in his proposed warfare against the good and happy  Oz people.    Guph knew very well that the Phanfasms would be almost as dangerous to  the Nomes as they would to the Ozites, but he thought himself so clever  that he believed he could manage these strange creatures and make them  obey him.  And there was no doubt at all that if he could enlist the  services of the Phanfasms, their tremendous power, united to the  strength of the Growleywogs and the cunning of the Whimsies would doom  the Land of Oz to absolute destruction.    So the old Nome climbed the foothills and trudged along the wild  mountain paths until he came to a big gully that encircled the Mountain  of Phantastico and marked the boundary line of the dominion of the  Phanfasms.  This gully was about a third of the way up the mountain,  and it was filled to the brim with red-hot molten lava in which swam  fire-serpents and poisonous salamanders.  The heat from this mass and  its poisonous smell were both so unbearable that even birds hesitated  to fly over the gully, but circled around it.  All living things kept  away from the mountain.    Now Guph had heard, during his long lifetime, many tales of these  dreaded Phanfasms; so he had heard of this barrier of melted lava, and  also he had been told that there was a narrow bridge that spanned it in  one place.  So he walked along the edge until he found the bridge.  It 
