"I don't know, I'm sure," said the Wizard.    Just then, as they rode along the pretty green lane toward  Fuddlecumjig, they espied a kangaroo sitting by the roadside.  The poor  animal had its face covered with both its front paws and was crying so  bitterly that the tears coursed down its cheeks in two tiny streams and  trickled across the road, where they formed a pool in a small hollow.    The Sawhorse stopped short at this pitiful sight, and Dorothy cried  out, with ready sympathy:    "What's the matter, Kangaroo?"    "Boo-hoo!  Boo-hoo!" wailed the Kangaroo; "I've lost my mi--mi--mi--Oh,  boo-hoo!  Boo-hoo!"--    "Poor thing," said the Wizard, "she's lost her mister.  It's probably  her husband, and he's dead."    "No, no, no!" sobbed the kangaroo.  "It--it isn't that.  I've lost my  mi--mi--Oh, boo, boo-hoo!"    "I know," said the Shaggy Man; "she's lost her mirror."    "No; it's my mi--mi--mi--Boo-hoo!  My mi--Oh, Boo-hoo!" and the  kangaroo cried harder than ever.    "It must be her mince-pie," suggested Aunt Em.    "Or her milk-toast," proposed Uncle Henry.    "I've lost my mi--mi--mittens!" said the kangaroo, getting it out at  last.    "Oh!" cried the Yellow Hen, with a cackle of relief.  "Why didn't you  say so before?"    "Boo-hoo!  I--I--couldn't," answered the kangaroo.    "But, see here," said Dorothy, "you don't need mittens in this warm  weather."    "Yes, indeed I do," replied the animal, stopping her sobs and removing  her paws from her face to look at the little girl reproachfully.  "My  hands will get all sunburned and tanned without my mittens, and I've  worn them so long that I'll probably catch cold without them."    "Nonsense!" said Dorothy.  "I never heard of any kangaroo wearing  mittens."    "Didn't you?" asked the animal, as if surprised.    "Never!" repeated the girl.  "And you'll probably make yourself sick if  you don't stop crying.  Where do you live?"    "About two miles beyond Fuddlecumjig," was the answer.  "Grandmother  Gnit made me the mittens, and she's one of the Fuddles." 
