 "Our enemies have not yet arrived," said the Scarecrow, after greeting  affectionately the sweet and girlish Ruler.    "They will soon be here," she said, "for I have just glanced at my  Magic Picture, and have seen them coughing and choking with the dust in  the tunnel."    "Oh, is there dust in the tunnel?" asked the Tin Woodman.    "Yes; Ozma placed it there by means of the Magic Belt," explained the  Scarecrow, with one of his broad smiles.    Then Dorothy came to them, Uncle Henry and Aunt Em following close  after her.  The little girl's eyes were heavy because she had had a  sleepless and anxious night.  Toto walked by her side, but the little  dog's spirits were very much subdued.  Billina, who was always up by  daybreak, was not long in joining the group by the fountain.    The Wizard and the Shaggy Man next arrived, and soon after appeared  Omby Amby, dressed in his best uniform.    "There lies the tunnel," said Ozma, pointing to a part of the ground  just before the Forbidden Fountain, "and in a few moments the dreadful  invaders will break through the earth and swarm over the land.  Let us  all stand on the other side of the Fountain and watch to see what  happens."    At once they followed her suggestion and moved around the fountain of  the Water of Oblivion.  There they stood silent and expectant until the  earth beyond gave way with a sudden crash and up leaped the powerful  form of the First and Foremost, followed by all his grim warriors.    As the leader sprang forward his gleaming eyes caught the play of the  fountain and he rushed toward it and drank eagerly of the sparkling  water.  Many of the other Phanfasms drank, too, in order to clear their  dry and dusty throats.  Then they stood around and looked at one  another with simple, wondering smiles.    The First and Foremost saw Ozma and her companions beyond the fountain,  but instead of making an effort to capture her he merely stared at her  in pleased admiration of her beauty--for he had forgotten where he was 
