 like frightened sheep; and then suddenly the doors flew open and the  Royal Dragon advanced to the center of the room.    This creature was at once the pride and terror of the Kingdom of Spor.  It was more than thirty feet in length and covered everywhere with  large green scales set with diamonds, making the dragon, when it moved,  a very glittering spectacle.  Its eyes were as big as pie-plates, and  its mouth--when wide opened--fully as large as a bath-tub.  Its tail  was very long and ended in a golden ball, such as you see on the top of  flagstaffs.  Its legs, which were as thick as those of an elephant, had  scales which were set with rubies and emeralds.  It had two monstrous,  big ears and two horns of carved ivory, and its teeth were also carved  into various fantastic shapes--such as castles, horses' heads, chinamen  and griffins--so that if any of them broke it would make an excellent  umbrella handle.    The Royal Dragon of Spor came crawling into the throne-room rather  clumsily, groaning and moaning with every step and waving its ears like  two blankets flying from a clothesline.    The king looked on it and frowned.    "Why are you not breathing fire and brimstone?" he demanded, angrily.    "Why, I was caught out in a gale the other night," returned the Dragon,  rubbing the back of its ear with its left front paw, as it paused and  looked at the king, "and the wind put out my fire."    "Then why didn't you light it again?" asked Terribus, turning on the  keepers.    "We--we were out of matches, your Majesty!" stammered the trembling  Gray Men.    "So--ho!" yelled the king, and was about to order the keepers beheaded;  but just then Nerle pulled out his match-box, lit one of the matches,  and held it in front of the Dragon's mouth.  Instantly the creature's  breath caught fire; and it began to breathe flames a yard in length.    "That's better," sighed the Dragon, contentedly.  "I hope your Majesty  is now satisfied."    "No,--I am not satisfied!" declared King Terribus.  "Why do you not 
