of Prince Marvel rang loud and clear; for the sight of the puzzled and  terrified faces about him was very comical.  Plucking a dart from the  sack he raised his arm and cried:    "Now it is my turn.  You shall have back your darts!"    "Hold!" shouted the king, in great fear.  "Do not, I beg you, slay my  faithful servants."  And with a wave of his hand he dismissed the  dwarfs, who were glad to rush from the room and escape.    Nerle wiped the tears from his eyes, for he was sorely disappointed at  having again escaped all pain and discomfort; but Prince Marvel seated  himself quietly upon a stool and looked at the scowling face of King  Terribus with real amusement.    The monarch of Spor had never before been so foiled and scorned by any  living creature.  Defeated and humbled before his own people, he bowed  his crimson head on his hands and sullenly regarded his foe with his  top eye.  Then it was that the idea came to him that no ordinary mortal  could have thwarted him so easily, and he began to fear he was  dealing--perhaps unawares--with some great magician or sorcerer.  That  a fairy should have assumed a mortal form he never once considered, for  such a thing was until then unheard of in the Enchanted Island of Yew.  But with the knowledge that he had met his master, whoever he might  prove to be, and that further attempts upon the stranger's life might  lead to his own undoing, King Terribus decided to adopt a new line of  conduct, hoping to accomplish by stratagem what he could not do by  force.  To be sure, there remained his regiment of Giants, the pride of  his kingdom; but Terribus dreaded to meet with another defeat; and he  was not at all sure, after what had happened, that the giants would  succeed in conquering or destroying the strangers.    "After all," he thought, "my only object in killing them was to prevent  their carrying news of my monstrous appearance to the outside world; so  if I can but manage to keep them forever in my kingdom it will answer 
