 face.  "It appears the path we chose winds around in a circle, and so  has brought us back to our starting-point.  So we must make the best of  a bad blunder and spend another night with our ugly friend King  Terribus."    They rode forward through the rows of giants to the castle, where the  ever-courteous servants took their horses and escorted them to their  former handsome apartments with every mark of respect.    No one seemed in the least surprised at their speedy return, and this  fact at first puzzled Nerle, and then made him suspicious.    After bathing and dusting their clothing they descended to the banquet  hall, where King Terribus sat upon his gray stone throne and welcomed  them with quiet courtesy.    The sight of the king's crimson skin and deformed face sent a thrill of  repugnance through Prince Marvel, and under the impulse of a sudden  thought he extended his hand toward Terribus and whispered a magic word  which was unheard by any around him.    Nerle did not notice the prince's swift gesture nor the whispered word;  but he was staring straight at Terribus at the time, and he saw with  surprise the eye on the top of the king's head move down toward his  forehead, and the eye in the center of his forehead slide slightly  toward the left, and the elephant-like nose shrink and shorten at the  same time.  Also it seemed to him that the king's skin was not so  crimson in color as before, and that a thin growth of hair had covered  his head.    However, no one else appeared to notice any change--least of all  Terribus--so Nerle seated himself at the table and began to eat.    "It was very kind of you to return so soon to my poor castle," said the  king to Prince Marvel, in his sweet voice.    "We could not help it," laughed the prince, in reply; "for the road  wound right and left until we knew not which way we traveled; and then  it finally circled around again to your castle.  But to-morrow we shall  seek a new path and bid you farewell forever." 
