 them almost at first sight.  But it was Nerle who became the little  lady's staunchest friend; for there was something rather mystical and  unnatural to him about the High Ki, who seemed almost like fairies,  while in Seseley he recognized a hearty, substantial girl of his own  rank in life.    While they stood talking and congratulating one another outside of the  castle, the Red Rogue of Dawna appeared among them.  He had heard the  noise of the smashing of his great mirror, and had come running  downstairs from his hiding-place to find his cunning had all been for  naught and his captives were free.    A furious anger then took possession of the Rogue, and forgetting his  personal weakness he caught up a huge battle-ax and rushed out to hurl  himself upon Prince Marvel, intending to do him serious injury.    But the prince was not taken unawares.  He saw the Red Rogue coming and  met him with drawn sword, striking quickly at the arm that wielded the  big ax.  The stroke was as sure as it was quick, and piercing the arm  of the giant caused him to drop the ax with a howl of pain.    Then Prince Marvel seized the Red Rogue by the ear--which he was just  tall enough to reach--and dragged him up the steps and into the castle,  the big fellow crying for mercy at every step and trembling like a leaf  through cowardice.    But down the hall Marvel marched him, seeking some room where the Rogue  might be safely locked in.  The great curtain that covered the second  enchanted mirror now caught Prince Marvel's eye, and, still holding his  prisoner by the ear, he reached out his left hand and pulled aside the  drapery.    The Red Rogue looked to see what his captor was doing, and beheld his  own reflection in the magic mirror.  Instantly he gave a wild cry and  disappeared, his body becoming absolutely invisible, while his coarse  red countenance stared back from the mirror.    And then Prince Marvel gave a sigh of relief and dropped the curtain  over the surface of the mirror.  For he realized that the Red Rogue of 
