followed after. Before Ozma had taken three steps she halted and so  forced Dorothy to halt, for the bridge was again moving and returning  to the island.    "We need not walk after all," said Ozma. So they stood still in their  places and let the steel bridge draw them onward. Indeed, the bridge  drew them well into the glass-domed building which covered the island,  and soon they found themselves standing in a marble room where two  handsomely dressed young men stood on a platform to receive them.    Ozma at once stepped from the end of the bridge to the marble platform,  followed by Dorothy, and then the bridge disappeared with a slight  clang of steel and a marble slab covered the opening from which it had  emerged.    The two young men bowed profoundly to Ozma, and one of them said:    "Queen Coo-ee-oh bids you welcome, O Strangers. Her Majesty is waiting  to receive you in her palace."    "Lead on," replied Ozma with dignity.    But instead of "leading on," the platform of marble began to rise,  carrying them upward through a square hole above which just fitted it.  A moment later they found themselves within the great glass dome that  covered almost all of the island.    Within this dome was a little village, with houses, streets, gardens  and parks. The houses were of colored marbles, prettily designed, with  many stained-glass windows, and the streets and gardens seemed well  cared for. Exactly under the center of the lofty dome was a small park  filled with brilliant flowers, with an elaborate fountain, and facing  this park stood a building larger and more imposing than the others.  Toward this building the young men escorted Ozma and Dorothy.    On the streets and in the doorways or open windows of the houses were  men, women and children, all richly dressed. These were much like other  people in different parts of the Land of Oz, except that instead of  seeming merry and contented they all wore expressions of much solemnity  or of nervous irritation. They had beautiful homes, splendid clothes,  and ample food, but Dorothy at once decided something was wrong with 
