transformed into three tall and slender young women, with fine,  intelligent faces and clothed in handsome, clinging gowns. The one who  had been a goldfish had beautiful golden hair and blue eyes and was  exceedingly fair of skin; the one who had been a bronzefish had dark  brown hair and clear gray eyes and her complexion matched these lovely  features. The one who had been a silverfish had snow-white hair of the  finest texture and deep brown eyes. The hair contrasted exquisitely  with her pink cheeks and ruby-red lips, nor did it make her look a day  older than her two companions.    As soon as they secured these girlish shapes, all three bowed low to  the Yookoohoo and said:    "We thank you, Reera."    Then they bowed to the Skeezer and said:    "We thank you, Ervic."    "Very good!" cried the Yookoohoo, examining her work with critical  approval. "You are much better and more interesting than fishes, and  this ungracious Skeezer would scarcely allow me to do the  transformations. You surely have nothing to thank him for. But now let  us dine in honor of the occasion."    She clapped her hands together and again a table loaded with food  appeared in the cottage. It was a longer table, this time, and places  were set for the three Adepts as well as for Reera and Ervic.    "Sit down, friends, and eat your fill," said the Yookoohoo, but instead  of seating herself at the head of the table she went to the cupboard,  saying to the Adepts: "Your beauty and grace, my fair friends, quite  outshine my own. So that I may appear properly at the banquet table I  intend, in honor of this occasion, to take upon myself my natural  shape."    Scarcely had she finished this speech when Reera transformed herself  into a young woman fully as lovely as the three Adepts. She was not  quite so tall as they, but her form was more rounded and more  handsomely clothed, with a wonderful jeweled girdle and a necklace of  shining pearls. Her hair was a bright auburn red, and her eyes large  and dark. 
