reflected a part of the forest, and there, beneath a wide-spreading  tree, Button Bright was lying asleep. On one side of him crouched a  tiger, ready to spring; on the other side was a big gray wolf, its  bared fangs glistening in a wicked way.    "Goodness me!" cried Trot, looking over Glinda's shoulder. "They'll  catch and kill him sure."    Everyone crowded around for a glimpse at the magic mirror.    "Pretty bad--pretty bad!" said the Scarecrow sorrowfully.    "Comes of getting lost!" said Cap'n Bill, sighing.    "Guess he's a goner!" said the Frogman, wiping his eyes on his purple  silk handkerchief.    "But where is he?  Can't we save him?" asked Ojo the Lucky.    "If we knew where he is we could probably save him," replied the little  Wizard, "but that tree looks so much like all the other trees, that we  can't tell whether it's far away or near by."    "Look at Glinda!" exclaimed Betsy    Glinda, having handed the mirror to the Wizard, had stepped aside and  was making strange passes with her outstretched arms and reciting in  low, sweet tones a mystical incantation. Most of them watched the  Sorceress with anxious eyes, despair giving way to the hope that she  might be able to save their friend. The Wizard, however, watched the  scene in the mirror, while over his shoulders peered Trot, the  Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man.    What they saw was more strange than Glinda's actions. The tiger started  to spring on the sleeping boy, but suddenly lost its power to move and  lay flat upon the ground. The gray wolf seemed unable to lift its feet  from the ground. It pulled first at one leg and then at another, and  finding itself strangely confined to the spot began to back and snarl  angrily. They couldn't hear the barkings and snarls, but they could see  the creature's mouth open and its thick lips move. Button Bright,  however, being but a few feet away from the wolf, heard its cries of  rage, which wakened him from his untroubled sleep. The boy sat up and  looked first at the tiger and then at the wolf. His face showed that 
