naturally occurred to me that the easiest way to gain admittance would  be by having the boat take us into the basement through the marble door  from which Coo-ee-oh launched it. But there must be other ways to get  inside the Dome and join Ozma and Dorothy, and such ways we must find  by study and the proper use of our powers of magic."    "It won't be easy," declared the Wizard, "for we must not forget that  Ozma herself understands considerable magic, and has doubtless tried to  raise the island or find other means of escape from it and failed."    "That is true," returned Glinda, "but Ozma's magic is fairy magic,  while you are a Wizard and I am a Sorceress. In this way the three of  us have a great variety of magic to work with, and if we should all  fail it will be because the island is raised and lowered by a magic  power none of us is acquainted with. My idea therefore is to seek--by  such magic as we possess--to accomplish our object in another way."    They made the circle of the Dome again in their boat, and once more saw  Ozma and Dorothy through their windows and exchanged signals with the  two imprisoned girls.    Ozma realized that her friends were doing all in their power to rescue  her and smiled an encouragement to their efforts. Dorothy seemed a  little anxious but was trying to be as brave as her companion.    After the boat had returned to the camp and Glinda was seated in her  tent, working out various ways by which Ozma and Dorothy could be  rescued, the Wizard stood on the shore dreamily eying the outlines of  the Great Dome which showed beneath the clear water, when he raised his  eyes and saw a group of strange people approaching from around the  lake. Three were young women of stately presence, very beautifully  dressed, who moved with remarkable grace. They were followed at a  little distance by a good-looking young Skeezer.    The Wizard saw at a glance that these people might be very important,  so he advanced to meet them. The three maidens received him graciously 
