them success, for all were grieved over Ozma's loss and anxious that  she be found again.  First came the Cowardly Lion, then the Patchwork  Girl riding upon the Woozy, then Betsy Bobbin on her mule Hank, and  finally the Sawhorse drawing the Red Wagon, in which were seated the  Wizard and Dorothy and Button-Bright and Trot.  No one was obliged to  drive the Sawhorse, so there were no reins to his harness; one had only  to tell him which way to go, fast or slow, and he understood perfectly.    It was about this time that a shaggy little black dog who had been  lying asleep in Dorothy's room in the palace woke up and discovered he  was lonesome.  Everything seemed very still throughout the great  building, and Toto--that was the little dog's name--missed the  customary chatter of the three girls.  He never paid much attention to  what was going on around him, and although he could speak, he seldom  said anything, so the little dog did not know about Ozma's loss or that  everyone had gone in search of her.  But he liked to be with people,  and especially with his own mistress, Dorothy, and having yawned and  stretched himself and found the door of the room ajar, he trotted out  into the corridor and went down the stately marble stairs to the hall  of the palace, where he met Jellia Jamb.    "Where's Dorothy?" asked Toto.    "She's gone to the Winkie Country," answered the maid.    "When?"    "A little while ago," replied Jellia.    Toto turned and trotted out into the palace garden and down the long  driveway until he came to the streets of the Emerald City.  Here he  paused to listen, and hearing sounds of cheering, he ran swiftly along  until he came in sight of the Red Wagon and the Woozy and the Lion and  the Mule and all the others.  Being a wise little dog, he decided not  to show himself to Dorothy just then, lest he be sent back home, but he  never lost sight of the party of travelers, all of whom were so eager  to get ahead that they never thought to look behind them.  When they 
