"Nothing like it," said Scraps.  "It's a make-believe.  You see it, but  it isn't.  Come on into the city; we've been wasting our time."    With this, she danced into the wall again and once more disappeared.  Button-Bright, who was rather venture-some, dashed away after her and  also became invisible to them.  The others followed more cautiously,  stretching out their hands to feel the wall and finding, to their  astonishment, that they could feel nothing because nothing opposed  them.  They walked on a few steps and found themselves in the streets  of a very beautiful city.  Behind them they again saw the wall, grim  and forbidding as ever, but now they knew it was merely an illusion  prepared to keep strangers from entering the city.    But the wall was soon forgotten, for in front of them were a number of  quaint people who stared at them in amazement as if wondering where  they had come from.  Our friends forgot their good manners for a time  and returned the stares with interest, for so remarkable a people had  never before been discovered in all the remarkable Land of Oz.    Their heads were shaped like diamonds, and their bodies like hearts.  All the hair they had was a little bunch at the tip top of their  diamond-shaped heads, and their eyes were very large and round, and  their noses and mouths very small.  Their clothing was tight fitting  and of brilliant colors, being handsomely embroidered in quaint designs  with gold or silver threads; but on their feet they wore sandals with  no stockings whatever.  The expression of their faces was pleasant  enough, although they now showed surprise at the appearance of  strangers so unlike themselves, and our friends thought they seemed  quite harmless.    "I beg your pardon," said the Wizard, speaking for his party, "for  intruding upon you uninvited, but we are traveling on important  business and find it necessary to visit your city.  Will you kindly  tell us by what name your city is called?"    They looked at one another uncertainly, each expecting some other to  answer.  Finally, a short one whose heart-shaped body was very broad 
