was so heavy that three men could scarcely have lifted it.  Yet this  morning when Glinda entered her drawing room after breakfast, the good  Sorceress was amazed to discover that her Great Book of Records had  mysteriously disappeared.    Advancing to the table, she found the chains had been cut with some  sharp instrument, and this must have been done while all in the castle  slept. Glinda was shocked and grieved.  Who could have done this  wicked, bold thing?  And who could wish to deprive her of her Great  Book of Records?    The Sorceress was thoughtful for a time, considering the consequences  of her loss.  Then she went to her Room of Magic to prepare a charm  that would tell her who had stolen the Record Book.  But when she  unlocked her cupboard and threw open the doors, all of her magical  instruments and rare chemical compounds had been removed from the  shelves.  The Sorceress has now both angry and alarmed.  She sat down  in a chair and tried to think how this extraordinary robbery could have  taken place.  It was evident that the thief was some person of very  great power, or the theft could not have been accomplished without her  knowledge. But who, in all the Land of Oz, was powerful and skillful  enough to do this awful thing?  And who, having the power, could also  have an object in defying the wisest and most talented Sorceress the  world has ever known?    Glinda thought over the perplexing matter for a full hour, at the end  of which time she was still puzzled how to explain it.  But although  her instruments and chemicals were gone, her KNOWLEDGE of magic had not  been stolen, by any means, since no thief, however skillful, can rob  one of knowledge, and that is why knowledge is the best and safest  treasure to acquire.  Glinda believed that when she had time to gather  more magical herbs and elixirs and to manufacture more magical  instruments, she would be able to discover who the robber was and what  had become of her precious Book of Records.    "Whoever has done this," she said to her maidens, "is a very foolish 
