They regarded the Frogman with much curiosity and interest, and finding  all eyes fixed upon him, the newcomer arranged his necktie and smoothed  his beautiful vest and swung his gold-headed cane like a regular dandy.  The big spectacles over his eyes quite altered his froglike countenance  and gave him a learned and impressive look.  Used as she was to seeing  strange creatures in the Land of Oz, Dorothy was amazed at discovering  the Frogman.  So were all her companions. Toto wanted to growl at him,  but couldn't, and he didn't dare bark.  The Sawhorse snorted rather  contemptuously, but the Lion whispered to the wooden steed, "Bear with  this strange creature, my friend, and remember he is no more  extraordinary than you are.  Indeed, it is more natural for a frog to  be big than for a Sawhorse to be alive."    On being questioned, the Frogman told them the whole story of the loss  of Cayke's highly prized dishpan and their adventures in search of it.  When he came to tell of the Lavender Bear King and of the Little Pink  Bear who could tell anything you wanted to know, his hearers became  eager to see such interesting animals.    "It will be best," said the Wizard, "to unite our two parties and share  our fortunes together, for we are all bound on the same errand, and as  one band we may more easily defy this shoemaker magician than if  separate. Let us be allies."    "I will ask my friends about that," replied the Frogman, and he climbed  over the hill to find Cayke and the toy bears.  The Patchwork Girl  accompanied him, and when they came upon the Cookie Cook and the  Lavender Bear and the Pink Bear, it was hard to tell which of the lot  was the most surprised.    "Mercy me!" cried Cayke, addressing the Patchwork Girl.  "However did  you come alive?"    Scraps stared at the bears.    "Mercy me!" she echoed, "You are stuffed, as I am, with cotton, and you  appear to be living.  That makes me feel ashamed, for I have prided  myself on being the only live cotton-stuffed person in Oz." 
