The others were all busy congratulating Ozma, who was very happy at  being released from the confinement of the golden peach pit, where the  magician had placed her with the notion that she never could be found  or liberated.    "And only to think," cried Dorothy, "that Button-Bright has been  carrying you in his pocket all this time, and we never knew it!"    "The little Pink Bear told you," said the Bear King, "but you wouldn't  believe him."    "Never mind, my dears," said Ozma graciously, "all is well that ends  well, and you couldn't be expected to know I was inside the peach pit.  Indeed, I feared I would remain a captive much longer than I did, for  Ugu is a bold and clever magician, and he had hidden me very securely."    "You were in a fine peach," said Button-Bright, "the best I ever ate."    "The magician was foolish to make the peach so tempting," remarked the  Wizard, "but Ozma would lend beauty to any transformation."    "How did you manage to conquer Ugu the Shoemaker?" inquired the girl  Ruler of Oz.    Dorothy started to tell the story, and Trot helped her, and  Button-Bright wanted to relate it in his own way, and the Wizard tried  to make it clear to Ozma, and Betsy had to remind them of important  things they left out, and all together there was such a chatter that it  was a wonder that Ozma understood any of it.  But she listened  patiently, with a smile on her lovely face at their eagerness, and  presently had gleaned all the details of their adventures.    Ozma thanked the Frogman very earnestly for his assistance, and she  advised Cayke the Cookie Cook to dry her weeping eyes, for she promised  to take her to the Emerald City and see that her cherished dishpan was  restored to her.  Then the beautiful Ruler took a chain of emeralds  from around her own neck and placed it around the neck of the little  Pink Bear.    "Your wise answers to the questions of my friends," said she, "helped  them to rescue me.   Therefore I am deeply grateful to you and to your 
