     There is no other country so beautiful as the Land of Oz.  There are no  other people so happy and contented and prosperous as the Oz people.  They have all they desire; they love and admire their beautiful girl  Ruler, Ozma of Oz, and they mix work and play so justly that both are  delightful and satisfying and no one has any reason to complain.  Once  in a while something happens in Oz to disturb the people's happiness  for a brief time, for so rich and attractive a fairyland is sure to  make a few selfish and greedy outsiders envious, and therefore certain  evil-doers have treacherously plotted to conquer Oz and enslave its  people and destroy its girl Ruler, and so gain the wealth of Oz for  themselves.  But up to the time when the cruel and crafty Nome,  Ruggedo, conspired with Kiki Aru, the Hyup, all such attempts had  failed.  The Oz people suspected no danger.  Life in the world's nicest  fairyland was one round of joyous, happy days.    In the center of the Emerald City of Oz, the capital city of Ozma's  dominions, is a vast and beautiful garden, surrounded by a wall inlaid  with shining emeralds, and in the center of this garden stands Ozma's  Royal Palace, the most splendid building ever constructed.  From a  hundred towers and domes floated the banners of Oz, which included the  Ozmies, the Munchkins, the Gillikins, the Winkies and the Quadlings.  The banner of the Munchkins is blue, that of the Winkies yellow; the  Gillikin banner is purple, and the Quadling's banner is red.  The  colors of the Emerald City are of course green.  Ozma's own banner has  a green center, and is divided into four quarters.  These quarters are  colored blue, purple, yellow and red, indicating that she rules over  all the countries of the Land of Oz.    This fairyland is so big, however, that all of it is not yet known to  its girl Ruler, and it is said that in some far parts of the country,  in forests and mountain fastnesses, in hidden valleys and thick  jungles, are people and beasts that know as little about Ozma as she 
