This woman might have been a wraith in verity, for she was clothed  throughout in white, save for the ponderous gold girdle about her  middle.  A white gorget framed the face which was so pinched and shrewd  and strange; and she peered into the well, smiling craftily.    "I was thinking death was like this well," said Biatritz, without any  cessation of her singular employment--"so dark that we may see nothing  clearly save one faint gleam which shows us, or which seems to show us,  where rest is.  Yes, yes, this is that chaplet which you won in the  tournament at Montferrat when we were young.  Pearls are the symbol of  tears, we read.  But we had no time for reading then, no time for  anything except to be quite happy. . . .  You saw this morning's work.  Raimbaut, were Satan to go mad he would be such a fiend as this  Guillaume de Baux who is our master!"    "Ay, the man is as cruel as my old opponent, Mourzoufle," Sire Raimbaut  answered, with a patient shrug.  "It is a great mystery why such  persons should win all which they desire of this world.  We can but  recognize that it is for some sufficient reason."  Then he talked with  her concerning the aforementioned infamous emperor of the East, against  whom the old knight had fought, and of Enrico Dandolo and of King  Boniface, dead brother to Madona Biatritz, and of much remote,  outlandish adventuring oversea.  Of Zoraida he did not speak.  And  Biatritz, in turn, told him of that one child which she had borne her  husband, Prince Conrat--a son who died in infancy; and she spoke of  this dead baby, who living would have been their monarch, with a sweet  quietude that wrung the old knight's heart.    Thus these spent people sat and talked for a long while, the talk  veering anywhither just as chance directed.  Blurred gusts of song and  laughter would come to them at times from the hall where Guillaume de  Baux drank with his courtiers, and these would break the tranquil flow  of speech.  Then, unvexedly, the gentle voice of the speaker, were it 
