hideous dreamy man, who, without ever perpetrating any actual  discourtesy, always managed to dismiss them, somehow, with a sense of  having been rebuffed.    Sir Thomas Browne, that ardent amateur of the curious, came into Devon,  however, without the risk of incurring any such fate, inasmuch as the  knight traveled westward simply to discuss with Master Philip Borsdale  the recent doings of Cardinal Alioneri.  Now, Philip Borsdale, as Sir  Thomas knew, had been employed by Herrick in various transactions here  irrelevant.  In consequence, Sir Thomas Browne was not greatly  surprised when, on his arrival at Buckfastleigh, Borsdale's  body-servant told him that Master Borsdale had left instructions for  Sir Thomas to follow him to Dean Prior.  Browne complied, because his  business with Borsdale was of importance.    Philip Borsdale was lounging in Dr. Herrick's chair, intent upon a  lengthy manuscript, alone and to all appearances quite at home.  The  state of the room Sir Thomas found extraordinary; but he had graver  matters to discuss; and he explained the results of his mission without  extraneous comment.    "Yes, you have managed it to admiration," said Philip Borsdale, when  the knight had made an end.  Borsdale leaned back and laughed,  purringly, for the outcome of this affair of the Cardinal and the Wax  Image meant much to him from a pecuniary standpoint.  "Yet it is odd a  prince of any church which has done so much toward the discomfiture of  sorcery should have entertained such ideas.  It is also odd to note the  series of coincidences which appears to have attended this Alioneri's  practises."    "I noticed that," said Sir Thomas.  After a while he said:  "You think,  then, that they must have been coincidences?"    "MUST is a word which intelligent people do not outwear by too constant  usage."    And "Oh----?" said the knight, and said that alone, because he was  familiar with the sparkle now in Borsdale's eyes, and knew it heralded  an adventure for an amateur of the curious.    "I am not committing myself, mark you, Sir Thomas, to any statement  whatever, beyond the observation that these coincidences were 
