give forth no more heart-wringing music, for the musician had departed.  And I still lived--I, the stout little tradesman whom you loathed.  Yes, that tradesman scrambled through these evils, somehow, and came  out still able to word adequately all such imaginings as could be  devised by his natural abilities.  But he transmitted no more  heart-wringing music."    She said, "You lie!"    He said, "I thank Heaven daily that I do not."  He spoke the truth.  She knew it, and her heart was all rebellion.    Indefatigable birds sang through the following hush.  A wholesome and  temperate breeze caressed these silent people.  Bees that would die  to-morrow hummed about them tirelessly.    Then the poet said:  "I loved you; and you did not love me.  It is the  most commonplace of tragedies, the heart of every man alive has been  wounded in this identical fashion.  A master-poet is only that wounded  man--among so many other bleeding folk--who perversely augments his  agony, and utilizes his wound as an inkwell.  Presently time scars over  the cut for him, as time does for all the others.  He does not suffer  any longer.  No, and such relief is a clear gain; but none the less, he  must henceforward write with ordinary ink such as the lawyers use."    "I should have been the man," the woman cried.  "Had I been sure of  fame, could I have known those raptures when you used to gabble  immortal phrases like a stammering infant, I would have paid the price  without all this whimpering."    "Faith, and I think you would have," he assented.  "There is the  difference.  At bottom I am a creature of the most moderate  aspirations, as you always complained; and for my part, Fate must in  reason demand her applause of posterity rather than of me.  For I  regret the unlived life that I was meant for--the comfortable level  life of little happenings which all my schoolfellows have passed  through in a stolid drove.  I was equipped to live that life with  relish, and that life only; and it was denied me.  It was demolished in 
