knife-thrust.  If he could make a match with you, though, your  father--thrifty man!--would be easily appeased.  Your cousins, those  proud, grumbling Castel-Franchi, Strossi and Valori, would not prove  over-obdurate toward a kinsman who, whatever his past indiscretions,  has so many pensions and offices at his disposal.  Yes, honor would  permit a truce, and Eglamore could bind them to his interests within  ten days, and be rid of the necessity of sleeping in chain armor. . . .  Have I not unraveled the scheme correctly, Eglamore?"    "Your highness was never lacking in penetration," replied the other in  a dull voice.  He stood motionless, holding the gloves, his shoulders a  little bowed as if under some physical load.  His eyes were fixed upon  the ground.  He divined the change in Graciosa's face and did not care  to see it.    "And so you are Count Eglamore," said Graciosa in a sort of whisper.  "That is very strange.  I had thought you were my friend, Guido.  But I  forget.  I must not call you Guido any longer."  She gave a little  shiver here.  He stayed motionless and did not look at her.  "I have  often wondered what manner of man you were.  So it was you--whose hand  I touched just now--you who poisoned Duke Cosmo, you who had the good  cardinal assassinated, you who betrayed the brave lord of Faenza!  Oh,  yes, they openly accuse you of every imaginable crime--this patient  Eglamore, this reptile who has crept into his power through filthy  passages.  It is very strange you should be capable of so much  wickedness, for to me you seem only a sullen lackey."    He winced and raised his eyes at this.  His face remained  expressionless.  He knew these accusations at least to be demonstrable  lies, for as it happened he had never found his advancement to hinge  upon the commission of the crimes named.  But even so, the past was a  cemetery he did not care to have revivified.    "And it was you who detected the Marquis of Cibo's conspiracy.  Tebaldeo was my cousin, Count Eglamore, and I loved him.  We were 
