man bowed ceremoniously.  All were still.  Composedly, like a  lieutenant before his captain, Mahi narrated how these hunted remnants  of Lovain's army had, as a last cast, that night invaded the chateau,  and had found, thanks to the festival, its men-at-arms in uniform and  inefficient drunkenness.  "My tres beau sire," Messire de Vernoil  ended, "will you or nill you, Venaissin is yours this morning.  My  knaves have slain Philibert and his bewildered fellow-tipplers with  less effort than is needed to drown as many kittens."    And his followers cried, as upon a signal: "Hail, Prince of Orange!"    It was so like the wonder-working of a dream--this sudden and heroic  uproar--that old Raimbaut de Vaquieras stood reeling, near to intimacy  with fear for the first time.  He waited thus, with both hands pressed  before his eyes.  He waited thus for a long while, because he was not  used to find chance dealing kindlily with him.  Later he saw that  Makrisi had vanished in the tumult, and that many people awaited his  speaking.    The lord of Venaissin began: "You have done me a great service, Messire  de Vemoil.  As recompense, I give you what I may.  I freely yield you  all my right in Venaissin.  Oh no, kingcraft is not for me.  I daily  see and hear of battles won, cities beleaguered, high towers  overthrown, and ancient citadels and new walls leveled with the dust.  I have conversed with many kings, the directors of these events, and  they were not happy people.  Yes, yes, I have witnessed divers  happenings, for I am old. . . .  I have found nothing which can serve  me in place of honor."    He turned to Dona Biatritz.  It was as if they were alone.  "Belhs  Cavaliers," he said, "I had sworn fealty to this Guillaume.  He  violated his obligations; but that did not free me of mine.  An oath is  an oath.  I was, and am to-day, sworn to support his cause, and to  profit in any fashion by its overthrow would be an abominable action.  Nay, more, were any of his adherents alive it would be my manifest duty 
