And Mildred Claridge said, "It is not fair for dreamers such as you to  let a woman know just how he loves her.  That is not wooing.  It is  bullying."    His lips were making a variety of irrational noises.  And he was near  to her.  Also he realized that he had never known how close akin were  fear and joy, so close the two could mingle thus, and be quite  undistinguishable.  And then repentance smote him.    "I am contemptible!" he groaned.  "I had no right to trouble you with  my insanities.  Indeed I had not ever meant to let you guess how mad I  was.  But always I have evaded my responsibilities.  So I remain Prince  Fribble to the last."    "Oh, but I knew, I have always known."  She held her eyes away from  him.  "And I wrote to Lord Brudenel only yesterday releasing him from  his engagement."    And now without uncertainty or haste Paul Vanderhoffen touched her  cheek and raised her face, so that he saw it plainly in the rising  twilight, and all its wealth of tenderness newborn.  And what he saw  there frightened him.    For the girl loved him!  He felt himself to be, as most men do, a  swindler when he comprehended this preposterous fact; and, in addition,  he thought of divers happenings, such as shipwrecks, holocausts and  earthquakes, which might conceivably have appalled him, and understood  that he would never in his life face any sense of terror as huge as was  this present sweet and illimitable awe.    And then he said, "You know that what I hunger for is impossible.  There are so many little things, like common-sense, to be considered.  For this is just a matter which concerns you and Paul Vanderhoffen--a  literary hack, a stuttering squeak-voiced ne'er-do-well, with an  acquired knack for scribbling verses that are feeble-minded enough for  Annuals and Keepsake Books, and so fetch him an occasional guinea.  For, my dear, the verses I write of my own accord are not sufficiently  genteel to be vended in Paternoster Row; they smack too dangerously of 
