wonderful throughout."    The brows of Ufford knit.  "Would you consent to live as a transported  felon?  I have much money.  I need not tell you the last penny is at  your disposal.  It might be possible to bribe.  Indeed, Lord Bute is  all-powerful to-day and he would perhaps procure a pardon for you at my  entreaty.  He is so kind as to admire my scribblings. . .  Or you might  live among your fellow-convicts somewhere over sea for a while longer.  I had not thought that such would be your choice----"  Here Ufford  shrugged, restrained by courtesy.  "Besides, Lord Bute is greatly  angered with you, because you have endangered his Russian alliance.  However, if you wish it, I will try----"    "Oh, for that matter, I do not much fear Lord Bute, because I bring him  the most welcome news he has had in many a day.  I may tell you since  it will be public to-morrow.  The Tzaritza Elizabeth, our implacable  enemy, died very suddenly three weeks ago.  Peter of Holstein-Gottrop  reigns to-day in Russia, and I have made terms with him.  I came to  tell Lord Bute the Cossack troops have been recalled from Prussia.  The  war is at an end."  Young Calverley meditated and gave his customary  boyish smile.  "Yes, I discharged my Russian mission after all--even  after I had formally relinquished it--because I was so opportunely  aided by the accident of the Tzaritza's death.  And Bute cares only for  results.  So I would explain to him that I resigned my mission simply  because in Russia my wife could not have lived out another year----"    The earl exclaimed, "Then Honoria is ill!" Mr. Calverley did not  attend, but stood looking out into the Venetian Chamber.    "See, Horace, she is dancing with Anchester while I wait here so near  to death.  She dances well.  But Honoria does everything adorably.  I  cannot tell you--oh, not even you!--how happy these three years have  been with her.  Eh, well! the gods are jealous of such happiness.  You  will remember how her mother died?  It appears that Honoria is 
