Sheridan," the beautiful intruder said.  "And I hasten to protest that  my presence in your apartments at this hour is prompted by no unworthy  motive.  I merely came to steal the famous diamond which you brought  from London--the Honor of Eiran."    "Incomparable Esther Jane," ran Mr. Sheridan's answer, "that stone is  now part of a brooch which was this afternoon returned to my cousin's,  the Earl of Eiran's, hunting-lodge near Melrose.  He intends the gem  which you are vainly seeking among my haberdashery to be the adornment  of his promised bride in the ensuing June.  I confess to no  overwhelming admiration as concerns this raucous if meritorious young  person; and will even concede that the thought of her becoming my  kinswoman rouses in me an inevitable distaste, no less attributable to  the discord of her features than to the source of her eligibility to  disfigure the peerage--that being her father's lucrative transactions  in Pork, which I find indigestible in any form."    "A truce to paltering!" Miss Ogle cried.  "That jewel was stolen from  the temple at Moorshedabad, by the Earl of Eiran's grandfather, during  the confusion necessarily attendant on the glorious battle of Plassy."  She laid down the pistol, and resumed in milder tones:  "From an  age-long existence as the left eye of Ganesh it was thus converted into  the loot of an invader.  To restore this diamond to its lawful,  although no doubt polygamous and inefficiently-attired proprietors is  at this date impossible.  But, oh! what claim have you to its  possession?"    "Why, none whatever," said the parliamentarian; "and to contend as much  would be the apex of unreason.  For this diamond belongs, of course, to  my cousin the Earl of Eiran----"    "As a thief's legacy!"  She spoke with signs of irritation.    "Eh, eh, you go too fast!  Eiran, to do him justice, is not a graduate  in peculation.  At worst, he is only the sort of fool one's cousins  ordinarily are."    The trousered lady walked to and fro for a while, with the impatience  of a caged lioness.  "I perceive I must go more deeply into matters," 
