However, with the assistance of his cousin--who, incidentally, was also  his heir--the prince most opportunely died.  Oh, pedant that you are!  in any event he was interred.  And so, the prince was gathered to his  fathers, and his cousin Augustus reigned in his stead.  Until a certain  politician who had been privy to this pious fraud----"  The tutor  shrugged.  "How can I word it without seeming hypercritical?"    Georges Desmarets stretched out appealing hands.  "But, I protest, it  was the narrow-mindedness of that pernicious prig, your cousin--who  firmly believes himself to be an improved and augmented edition of the  Four Evangelists----"    "Well, in any event, the proverb was attested that birds of a feather  make strange bedfellows.  There was a dispute concerning some petit  larceny--some slight discrepancy, we will imagine, since all this is  pure romance, in the politician's accounts----"    "Now you belie me----" said the black-haired man, and warmly.    "Oh, Desmarets, you are as vain as ever!  Let us say, then, of grand  larceny.  In any event, the politician was dismissed.  And what, my  dears, do you suppose this bold and bad and unprincipled Machiavelli  went and did?  Why, he made straight for the father of the princess the  usurping duke was going to marry, and surprised everybody by showing  that, at a pinch, even this Guy Fawkes--who was stuffed with all manner  of guile and wickedness where youthful patriotism would ordinarily  incline to straw--was capable of telling the truth.  And so the father  broke off the match.  And the enamored, if usurping, duke wept bitterly  and tore his hair to such an extent he totally destroyed his best  toupet.  And privily the Guy Fawkes came into the presence of the  exiled duke and prated of a restoration to ancestral dignities.  And he  was spurned by a certain highly intelligent person who considered it  both tedious and ridiculous to play at being emperor of a backyard.  And then--I really don't recall what happened.  But there was a general  and unqualified deuce to pay with no pitch at a really satisfying  temperature."    The stouter man said quietly:  "It is a thrilling tale which you 
