  "And, besides, he thinks you mean to marry her!" said John Hughes.    "My dear man, he pardonably forgets that the utmost reach of my designs  in common reason would be to have her as my kept mistress for a month  or two," drawled Mr. Pope.  "As concerns yourself, my good fellow, the  case is somewhat different.  Why, it is a veritable romance--an affair  of Daphne and Corydon--although, to be unpardonably candid, the plot of  your romance, my young Arcadians, is not the most original conceivable.  I think that the denouement need not baffle our imaginations."    The dwarf went toward Sarah Drew.  The chary sunlight had found the  gold in her hair, and its glint was brightly visible to him.  "My  dear--" he said.  His thin long fingers touched her capable hand.  It  was a sort of caress--half-timid.  "My dear, I owe my life to you.  My  body is at most a flimsy abortion such as a night's exposure would have  made more tranquil than it is just now.  Yes, it was you who found a  caricature of the sort of man that Mr. Hughes here is, disabled,  helpless, and--for reasons which doubtless seemed to you  sufficient--contrived that this unsightly parody continue in existence.  I am not lovable, my dear.  I am only a hunchback, as you can see.  My  aspirations and my sickly imaginings merit only the derision of a  candid clean-souled being such as you are."  His finger-tips touched  the back of her hand again.  "I think there was never a maker of  enduring verse who did not at one period or another long to exchange an  assured immortality for a sturdier pair of shoulders.  I think--I think  that I am prone to speak at random," Pope said, with his half-drowsy  smile.  "Yet, none the less, an honest man, as our kinsmen in Adam  average, is bound to pay his equitable debts."    She said, "I do not understand."    "I have perpetrated certain jingles," Pope returned.  "I had not  comprehended until to-day they are the only children I shall leave  behind me.  Eh, and what would you make of them, my dear, could 
