  Wycherley discovered in a while the absence of his sleeve-links, and  was properly vexed by the loss of these not unhandsome trinkets, the  gifts of Lady Castlemaine in the old days when Mr. Wycherley was the  King's successful rival for her favors.  But Wycherley knew the tide  filled Teviot Bay and wondering fishes were at liberty to muzzle the  toys, by this, and merely shrugged at his mishap, midcourse in toilet.    Mr. Wycherley, upon mature deliberation, wore the green suit with  yellow ribbons, since there was a ball that night in honor of his  nearing marriage, and a confluence of gentry to attend it.  Miss Vining  and he walked through a minuet to some applause; the two were heartily  acclaimed a striking couple, and congratulations beat about their ears  as thick as sugar-plums in a carnival.  And at nine you might have  found the handsome dramatist alone upon the East Terrace of Ouseley,  pacing to and fro in the moonlight, and complacently reflecting upon  his quite indisputable and, past doubt, unmerited good fortune.    There was never any night in June which nature planned the more  adroitly.  Soft and warm and windless, lit by a vainglorious moon and  every star that ever shone, the beauty of this world caressed and  heartened its beholder like a gallant music.  Our universe, Mr.  Wycherley conceded willingly, was excellent and kindly, and the Arbiter  of it too generous; for here was he, the wastrel, like the third prince  at the end of a fairy-tale, the master of a handsome wife, and a fine  house and fortune.  Somewhere, he knew, young Minifie, with his arm in  a sling, was pleading with Mistress Araminta for the last time; and  this reflection did not greatly trouble Mr. Wycherley, since  incommunicably it tickled his vanity.  He was chuckling when he came to  the open window.    Within a woman was singing, to the tinkling accompaniment of a spinet,  for the delectation of Lord Remon.  She was not uncomely, and the hard,  lean, stingy countenance of the attendant nobleman was almost genial.  Wycherley understood with a great rending shock, as though the thought  were novel, that Olivia, Lady Drogheda, designed to marry this man, who 
