And what Mr. Wycherley saw was a substantial boat rowed by four of Mr.  Minifie's attendants; and in the bow of the vessel sat that wounded  gentleman himself, regarding Wycherley and Lady Drogheda with some  disfavor; and beside the younger man was Mistress Araminta Vining.    It was a perturbed Minifie who broke the silence.  "This is very  awkward," he said, "because Araminta and I are eloping.  We mean to be  married this same night at Milanor.  And deuce take it, Mr. Wycherley!  I can't leave you there to drown, any more than in the circumstances I  can ask you to make one of the party."    "Mr.  Wycherley," said his companion, with far more asperity, "the  vanity and obduracy of a cruel father have forced me to the adoption of  this desperate measure.  Toward yourself I entertain no ill-feeling,  nor indeed any sentiment at all except the most profound contempt.  My  aunt will, of course, accompany us; for yourself, you will do as you  please; but in any event I solemnly protest that I spurn your odious  pretensions, release myself hereby from an enforced and hideous  obligation, and in a phrase would not marry you in order to be Queen of  England."    "Miss Vining, I had hitherto admired you," the beau replied, with  fervor, "but now esteem is changed to adoration."    Then he turned to his Olivia.  "Madam, you will pardon the awkward but  unavoidable publicity of my proceeding.  I am a ruined man.  I owe your  brother-in-law some L1500, and, oddly enough, I mean to pay him.  I  must sell Jephcot and Skene Minor, but while life lasts I shall keep  Bessington and all its memories.  Meanwhile there is a clergyman  waiting at Milanor.  So marry me to-night, Olivia; and we will go back  to Bessington to-morrow."    "To Bessington----!" she said.  It was as though she spoke of something  very sacred.  Then very musically Lady Drogheda laughed, and to the eye  she was all flippancy.  "La, William, I can't bury myself in the  country until the end of time," she said, "and make interminable  
