madman's dream, dear lad, and we must not dare to consider it  seriously, lest we become no more sane than he."    "But you will aid me?" Borsdale said.    "Yes, I will aid you, Philip, for in Herrick's case I take it that the  mischief is consummated already; and we, I think, risk nothing worse  than death.  But you will need another knife a little later--a knife  that will be clean."    "I had forgotten."  Borsdale withdrew, and presently returned with a  bone-handled knife.  And then he made a light.  "Are you quite ready,  sir?"    Sir Thomas Browne, that aging amateur of the curious, could not resist  a laugh.    And then they sat about proceedings of which, for obvious reasons, the  details are best left unrecorded.  It was not an unconscionable while  before they seemed to be aware of unusual phenomena.  But as Sir Thomas  always pointed out, in subsequent discussions, these were quite  possibly the fruitage of excited imagination.    "Now, Philip!--now, give me the knife!" cried Sir Thomas Browne.  He  knew for the first time, despite many previous mischancy happenings,  what real terror was.    The room was thick with blinding smoke by this, so that Borsdale could  see nothing save his co-partner in this adventure.  Both men were  shaken by what had occurred before.  Borsdale incuriously perceived  that old Sir Thomas rose, tense as a cat about to pounce, and that he  caught the unstained knife from Borsdale's hand, and flung it like a  javelin into the vapor which encompassed them.  This gesture stirred  the smoke so that Borsdale could see the knife quiver and fall, and  note the tiny triangle of unbared plaster it had cut in the painted  woman's breast.  Within the same instant he had perceived a naked man  who staggered.    "_Iz adu kronyeshnago_----!"  The intruder's thin, shrill wail was that  of a frightened child.  The man strode forward, choked, seemed to grope  his way.  His face was not good to look at.  Horror gripped and tore at  every member of the cadaverous old body, as a high wind tugs at a flag. 
