declaration of a man and woman that they are married constitutes a  marriage."    "Oh----!" she exclaimed, and stood encrimsoned.    "Indeed, I must confess that the day's work has been a trick  throughout.  The diamond was pawned years ago.  This trinket here is a  copy in paste and worth perhaps some seven shillings sixpence.  And  those fellows were not constables, but just my cousin Eiran and two  footmen in disguise.  Nay, madam, you will learn with experience that  to display unfailing candor is not without exception the price of  happiness."    "But this, I think, evades our bargain, Mr. Sheridan.  For you were  committed to pilfer property to the value of L10,000----"    "And to fulfil the obligation I have stolen your hand in marriage.  What, madam! do you indeed pretend that any person outside of Bedlam  would value you at less?  Believe me, your perfections are of far more  worth.  All persons recognize that save yourself, incomparable Esther  Jane; and yet, so patent is the proof of my contention, I dare to leave  the verdict to your sense of justice."    Miss Ogle did not speak.  Her lashes fell as, with some ceremony, he  led her to the long French mirror which was in the breakfast room.  "See now!" said Mr. Sheridan.  "You, who endanger life and fame in  order to provide a mendicant with gruel, tracts and blankets!  You, who  deny a sop to the one hunger which is vital!  Oh, madam, I am tempted  glibly to compare your eyes to sapphires, and your hair to thin-spun  gold, and the color of your flesh to the arbutus-flower--for that, as  you can see, would be within the truth, and it would please most women,  and afterward they would not be so obdurate.  But you are not like  other women," Mr. Sheridan observed, with admirable dexterity.  "And I  aspire to you, the irresistible Ogle! you, who so great-heartedly  befriend the beggar! you, who with such industry contrive alleviation  for the discomforts of poverty.  Eh, eh! what will you grant to any  beggar such as I?  Will you deny a sop to the one hunger which is 
