have thought of this particular one after his death. And it isn't  quite the same will as the other; it leaves you practically  everything, but it doesn't appoint any trustees, as the other did,  because this will was drawn up after you were of age. Moreover, it  contains these four bequests to colleges, to establish a Woods chair  of ethnology, which the other will didn't provide for. Of course, it  would have been simpler merely to add a codicil to the first will,  but Uncle Fred was always very methodical. I--I think he was probably  going through the desk the night he died, destroying various papers.  He must have taken the other will out to destroy it just--just before  he died. Perhaps--perhaps--" Billy paused for a little and then  laughed, unmirthfully. "It scarcely matters," said he. "Here is the  will. It is undoubtedly genuine and undoubtedly the last he made.  You'll have to have it probated, Peggy, and settle with the colleges.  It--it won't make much of a hole in the Woods millions."    There was a half-humorous bitterness in his voice that Margaret noted  silently. So (she thought) he had hoped for a moment that at the last  Frederick R. Woods had relented toward him. It grieved her, in a dull  fashion, to see him so mercenary. It grieved her--though she would  have denied it emphatically--to see him so disappointed. Since he  wanted the money so much, she would have liked for him to have had it,  worthless as he was, for the sake of the boy he had been.    "Thank you," she said, coldly, as she took the paper; "I will give it  to my father. He will do what is necessary. Good-night, Mr. Woods."    Then she locked up the desk in a businesslike fashion and turned to  him, and held out her hand.    "Good-night, Billy," said this perfectly inconsistent young woman.  "For a moment I thought Uncle Fred had altered his will in your  favour. I almost wish he had."    Billy smiled a little.    "That would never have done," he said, gravely, as he shook  hands; "you forget what a sordid, and heartless, and generally 
