"It's nonsense," pursued the old gentleman, "utter, bedlamite  nonsense, filling Selwoode up with writing people! Never heard of such  a thing. Gad, I do remember, as a young man, meeting Thackeray at a  garden-party at Orleans House--gentlemanly fellow with a broken nose--  and Browning went about a bit, too, now I think of it. People had 'em  one at a time to lend flavour to a dinner--like an olive; we didn't  dine on olives, though. You have 'em for breakfast, luncheon, dinner,  and everything! I'm sick of olives, I tell you, Margaret!" Margaret  pouted.    "They ain't even good olives. I looked into one of that fellow  Charteris's books the other day--that chap you had here last week.  It was bally rot--proverbs standing on their heads and grinning  like dwarfs in a condemned street-fair! Who wants to be told that  impropriety is the spice of life and that a roving eye gathers  remorse? _You_ may call that sort of thing cleverness, if you like; I  call it damn' foolishness." And the emphasis with which he said this  left no doubt that the Colonel spoke his honest opinion.    "Attractive," said his daughter patiently, "Mr. Charteris is very,  very clever. Mr. Kennaston says literature suffered a considerable  loss when he began to write for the magazines."    And now that Margaret has spoken, permit me to call your attention to  her voice. Mellow and suave and of astonishing volume was Margaret's  voice; it came not from the back of her throat, as most of our women's  voices do, but from her chest; and I protest it had the timbre of a  violin. Men, hearing her voice for the first time, were wont to stare  at her a little and afterward to close their hands slowly, for always  its modulations had the tonic sadness of distant music, and it  thrilled you to much the same magnanimity and yearning, cloudily  conceived; and yet you could not but smile in spite of yourself at the  quaint emphasis fluttering through her speech and pouncing for the  most part on the unlikeliest word in the whole sentence.    But I fancy the Colonel must have been tone-deaf. "Don't you make  
