  Mr. Woods's manner was a thought strange. He stammered a little in  speaking; he laughed unnecessarily; and Margaret could see that his  hands trembled. Taking him all in all, you would have sworn he was  repressing some vital emotion. But he did not seem unhappy--no, not  exactly unhappy. He was with Margaret, you see.    "Oh, you beauty!" his meditations ran.    He had some excuse. In the soft, rosy twilight of the room--the study  at Selwoode is panelled in very dark oak, and the doors and windows  are screened with crimson hangings--her parti-coloured red-and-yellow  gown might have been a scrap of afterglow left over from an unusually  fine sunset. In a word, Miss Hugonin was a very quaint and colourful  and delectable figure as she came a little further into the room. Her  eyes shone like blue stars, and her hair shone--there must be pounds  of it, Billy thought--and her very shoulders, plump, flawless,  ineffable, shone with the glow of an errant cloud-tatter that is just  past the track of dawn, and is therefore neither pink nor white, but  manages somehow to combine the best points of both colours.    "Ah, indeed?" said Miss Hugonin. Her tone imparted a surprising degree  of chilliness to this simple remark.    "No," she went on, very formally, "this is not a private room; you owe  me no apology for being here. Indeed, I am rather obliged to you, Mr.  Woods, for none of us knew of these secret drawers. Here is the key to  the central compartment, if you will be kind enough to point out the  other one. Dear, dear!" Margaret concluded, languidly, "all this is  quite like a third-rate melodrama. I haven't the least doubt you will  discover a will in there in your favour, and be reinstated as the  long-lost heir and all that sort of thing. How tiresome that will be  for me, though."    She was in a mood to be cruel to-night. She held out the keys to  him, in a disinterested fashion, and dropped them daintily into his  outstretched palm, just as she might have given a coin to an unusually  grimy mendicant. But the tips of her fingers grazed his hand. 
