nobly and poetically and considerately, and altogether there was  absolutely no excuse for her being in a temper. Still, she was.    The moon, however, considered the affair as arranged.    For she had been no whit more resolute in her refusal, you see, than  becomes any self-respecting maid. In fact, she had not refused him;  and the experienced moon had seen the hopes of many a wooer thrive,  chameleon-like, on answers far less encouraging than that which  Margaret had given Felix Kennaston.    Margaret was very fond of him. All women like a man who can do a  picturesque thing without bothering to consider whether or not he be  making himself ridiculous; and more than once in thinking of him she  had wondered if--perhaps--possibly--some day--? And always these vague  flights of fancy had ended at this precise point--incinerated, if you  will grant me the simile, by the sudden flaming of her cheeks.    The thing is common enough. You may remember that Romeo was not the  only gentleman that Juliet noticed at her début: there was the young  Petruchio; and the son and heir of old Tiberio; and I do not question  that she had a kind glance or so for County Paris. Beyond doubt, there  were many with whom my lady had danced; with whom she had laughed a  little; with whom she had exchanged a few perfectly affable words and  looks--when of a sudden her heart speaks: "Who's he that would not  dance? If he be married, my grave is like to prove my marriage-bed."  In any event, Paris and Petruchio and Tiberio's young hopeful can go  hang; Romeo has come.    Romeo is seldom the first. Pray you, what was there to prevent Juliet  from admiring So-and-so's dancing? or from observing that Signor  Such-an-one had remarkably expressive eyes? or from thinking of Tybalt  as a dear, reckless fellow whom it was the duty of some good woman to  rescue from perdition? If no one blames the young Montague for sending  Rosaline to the right-about--Rosaline for whom he was weeping and  rhyming an hour before--why, pray, should not Signorina Capulet have  had a few previous _affaires du coeur_? Depend upon it, she had; for 
