was in the pink of condition. Oh, yes, she was quite well. She hoped  Mr. Woods would not find America--    "Well, Peggy," said Mr. Woods, "then, we'll have it out right here."    His insolence was so surprising that--in order to recover  herself--Margaret actually sat down under the maple-tree. Peggy,  indeed! Why, she hadn't been called Peggy for--no, not for four whole  years!    "Because I intend to be friends, you know," said Mr. Woods.    And about them the maple-leaves made a little island of sombre green,  around which more vivid grasses rippled and dimpled under the fitful  spring breezes. And everywhere leaves lisped to one another, and birds  shrilled insistently. It was a perilous locality.    I fancy Billy Woods was out of his head when he suggested being  friends in such a place. Friends, indeed!--you would have thought from  the airy confidence with which he spoke that Margaret had come safely  to forty year and wore steel-rimmed spectacles!    But Miss Hugonin merely cast down her eyes and was aware of no reason  why they shouldn't be. She was sure he must be hungry, and she thought  luncheon must be ready by now.    In his soul, Mr. Woods observed that her lashes were long--long beyond  all reason. Lacking the numbers that Petrarch flowed in, he did not  venture, even to himself, to characterise them further. But oh, how  queer it was they should be pure gold at the roots!--she must have  dipped them in the ink-pot. And oh, the strong, sudden, bewildering  curve of 'em! He could not recall at the present moment ever noticing  quite such lashes anywhere else. No, it was highly improbable that  there were such lashes anywhere else. Perhaps a few of the superior  angels might have such lashes. He resolved for the future to attend  church more regularly.    Aloud, Mr. Woods observed that in that case they had better shake  hands.    It would have been ridiculous to contest the point. The dignified  course was to shake hands, since he insisted on it, and then to return  at once to Selwoode.    Margaret Hugonin had a pretty hand, and Mr. Woods, as an artist, could 
