him. The Colonel liked Billy; and furthermore, the poor Colonel's  position at Selwoode just now was not utterly unlike that of the  suppositious mariner; were I minded to venture into metaphor, I should  picture him as clinging desperately to the rock of an old fogeyism  and surrounded by weltering seas of advanced thought. Colonel Hugonin  himself was not advanced in his ideas. Also, he had forceful opinions  as to the ultimate destination of those who were.    Then Billy was presented to the men of the party--Mr. Felix Kennaston  and Mr. Petheridge Jukesbury. Mrs. Haggage he knew slightly; and  Kathleen Saumarez he had known very well indeed, some six years  previously, before she had ever heard of Miguel Saumarez, and when  Billy was still an undergraduate. She was a widow now, and not  well-to-do; and Mr. Woods's first thought on seeing her was that a man  was a fool to write verses, and that she looked like just the sort of  woman to preserve them.    His second was that he had verged on imbecility when he fancied he  admired that slender, dark-haired type. A woman's hair ought to be an  enormous coronal of sunlight; a woman ought to have very large, candid  eyes of a colour between that of sapphires and that of the spring  heavens, only infinitely more beautiful than either; and all  petticoated persons differing from this description were manifestly  quite unworthy of any serious consideration.    So his eyes turned to Margaret, who had no eyes for him. She had  forgotten his existence, with an utterness that verged on ostentation;  and if it had been any one else Billy would have surmised she was in a  temper. But that angel in a temper!--nonsense! And, oh, what eyes she  had! and what lashes! and what hair!--and altogether, how adorable she  was, and what a wonder the admiring gods hadn't snatched her up to  Olympus long ago!    Thus far Mr. Woods.    But if Miss Hugonin was somewhat taciturn, her counsellors in divers  schemes for benefiting the universe were in opulent vein. Billy heard  them silently.    "I have spent the entire morning by the lake," Mr. Kennaston informed 
