obsolete now because he "wallows naked in the pathetic" and was  frequently guilty of a very vulgar sort of humour that actually made  people laugh, which, as we now know, is not the purpose of humour--a  novelist who incessantly "caricatured Nature" and by these inartistic  and underhand methods created characters that are more real to us than  the folk we jostle in the street and (God knows!) far more vital and  worthy of attention than the folk who "cannot read Dickens"--you will  find, I say, a note of an idea which he never afterward developed,  running to this effect: "Full length portrait of his lordship,  surrounded by worshippers. Sensible men enough, agreeable men enough,  independent men enough in a certain way; but the moment they begin  to circle round my lord, and to shine with a borrowed light from  his lordship, heaven and earth, how mean and subservient! What a  competition and outbidding of each other in servility!"    And this, with "my lord" and "his lordship" erased to make way for the  word "money," is my moral. The folk who have just left Selwoode were  honest enough as honesty goes nowadays; kindly as any of us dare  be who have our own way to make among very stalwart and determined  rivals; generous as any man may venture to be in a world where  the first of every month finds the butcher and the baker and the  candlestick-maker rapping at the door with their little bills: but  they cringed to money. It was very wrong of them, my dear lady, and in  extenuation I can only plead that they could no more help cringing to  money than you or I can help it.    This is very crude and very cynical, but unfortunately it is true.    We always cringe to money; which is humiliating. And the sun always  rises at an hour when sensible people are abed and have not the least  need for its services; which is foolish. And what you and I, my dear  madam, are to do about rectifying either one of these vexatious  circumstances, I am sure I don't know.    We can, at least, be honest. Let us, then, console ourselves at will 
