the gods. But there must need be an end some day. And meanwhile, you  cannot blame us if we cringe to the Eagle that is master of the world.  It is human nature to cringe to its master; and while human nature  is not always an admirable thing, it is, I believe, rather widely  distributed."    Margaret did not return the smile. Like any sensible woman, she never  tolerated opinions that differed from her own.    So she waved his preachment aside. "You're trying to be eloquent," was  her observation, "and you've only succeeded in being very silly and  tiresome. Go away, beautiful. You make me awfully tired, and I don't  care for you in the least. Go and talk to Kathleen. I shall be  here--on this very spot," Margaret added, with commendable precision  and an unaccountable increase of colour, "if--if any one should happen  to ask."    Then Kennaston rose and laughed merrily.    "You are quite delicious," he commented. "It will always be a  grief and a puzzle to me that I am not mad for love of you. It is  unreasonable of me," he complained, sadly, and shook his head, "but I  prefer Kathleen. And I am quite certain that somebody will ask where  you are. I shall describe to him the exact spot--"    Mr. Kennaston paused, with a slight air of apology.    "If I were you," he suggested, pleasantly, "I would move a  little--just a little--to the left. That will enable you to obtain to  a fuller extent the benefit of the sunbeam which is falling--quite  by accident, of course--upon your hair. You are perfectly right,  Margaret, in selecting that hedge as a background. Its sombre green  sets you off to perfection."    He went away chuckling. He felt that Margaret must think him a devil  of a fellow.    She didn't, though.    "The _idea_ of his suspecting me of such unconscionable vanity!" she  said, properly offended. Then, "Anyhow, a man has no business to know  about such things," she continued, with rising indignation. "I believe  Felix Kennaston is as good a judge of chiffons as any woman. That's  effeminate, I think, and catty and absurd. I don't believe I ever 
