you'd just lost a fortune instead of inheriting one! Wish you joy of  it, Billy. I ain't saying, you know, we shan't miss it, my daughter  and I--no, begad, for it's a nice pot of money, and we'll miss it  damnably. But since somebody had to have it, I'd much rather it was  you, my boy, than a set of infernal, hypocritical, philanthropic  sharks, and I'm damn' glad Frederick has done the square thing by  you--yes, begad!"    The old gentleman was standing beside Mr. Woods in the vestibule of  Selwoode, some distance from the other members of the house-party,  and was speaking in confidence. He was sincere; I don't say that  the thought of facing the world at sixty-five with practically  no resources save his half-pay--I think I have told you that the  Colonel's diversions had drunk up his wife's fortune and his own like  a glass of water--I don't say that this thought moved him to hilarity.  Over it, indeed, he pulled a frankly grave face.    But he cared a deal for Billy; and even now there was balm--soothing,  priceless balm--to be had of the reflection that this change in  his prospects affected materially the prospects of those cultured,  broad-minded, philanthropic persons who had aforetime set his daughter  to requiring of him a perusal of Herbert Spencer.    Billy was pretty well aware how monetary matters stood with the old  wastrel; and the sincerity of the man affected him far more than the  most disinterested sentiments would have done. Mr. Woods accordingly  shook hands, with entirely unnecessary violence.    "You're a trump, that's what you are!" he declared; "oh, yes, you are,  Colonel! You're an incorrigible, incurable old ace of trumps--the  very best there is in the pack--and it's entirely useless for you to  attempt to conceal it."    "Gad----!" said the Colonel.    "And don't you worry about that will," Mr. Woods advised. "I--I can't  explain things just now, but it's all right. You just wait--just wait  till I've seen Peggy," Billy urged, in desperation, "and I'll explain  everything."    "By gad----!" said the Colonel. But Mr. Woods was half-way out of the  vestibule.  
