  Margaret was hatless--and the glory of the eminently sensible spring  sun appeared to centre in her hair--and violet-clad; and the gown,  like most of her gowns, was all tiny tucks and frills and flounces,  diapered with semi-transparencies--unsubstantial, foam-like, mere  violet froth. As she came starry-eyed through the gardens, the  impudent wind trifling with her hair, I protest she might have been  some lady of Oberon's court stolen out of Elfland to bedevil us poor  mortals, with only a moonbeam for the changeable heart of her, and  for raiment a violet shadow spirited from the under side of some big,  fleecy cloud.    They came presently through a trim, yew-hedged walkway to a  summer-house covered with vines, into which Margaret peeped and  declined to enter, on the ground that it was entirely too chilly  and gloomy and _exactly_ like a mausoleum; but nearby they found a  semi-circular marble bench about which a group of elm-trees made a  pleasant shadow splashed at just the proper intervals with sunlight.    On this Margaret seated herself; and then pensively moved to the other  end of the bench, because a slanting sunbeam fell there. Since it  was absolutely necessary to blast Mr. Kennaston's dearest hopes,  she thoughtfully endeavoured to distract his attention from his own  miseries--as far as might be possible--by showing him how exactly like  an aureole her hair was in the sunlight. Margaret always had a kind  heart.    Kennaston stood before her, smiling a little. He was the sort of man  to appreciate the manoeuver.    "My lady," he asked, very softly, "haven't you any good news for me on  this wonderful morning?"    "Excellent news," Margaret assented, with a cheerfulness that was  not utterly free from trepidation. "I've decided not to marry you,  beautiful, and I trust you're properly grateful. You see, you're very  nice, of course, but I'm going to marry somebody else, and bigamy is  a  crime, you know; and, anyhow, I'm only a pauper, and you'd never be  able to put up with my temper--now, beautiful, I'm quite sure you  couldn't, so there's not a bit of use in arguing it. Some day you'd  end by strangling me, which would be horribly disagreeable for me, and 
