that one of your not knowing about that last will?"    "The farce!" Billy stammered. "You--why, you saw me when I found it!"    "Ah, yes, I saw you when you pretended to find it. I saw you when you  pretended to unlock that centre place. But now, of course, I know it  never was locked. I'm very careless about locking things, Mr. Woods.  Ah, yes, that gave you a beautiful opportunity, didn't it? So, when  you were rummaging through my desk--without my permission, by the way,  but that's a detail--you found both wills and concocted your little  comedy? That was very clever. Oh, you think you're awfully smooth,  don't you, Billy Woods? But if you had been a bit more daring, don't  you see, you could have suppressed the last one and taken the money  without being encumbered by me? That was rather clumsy of you, wasn't  it?" Suave, gentle, sweet as honey was the speech of Margaret as she  lifted her face to his, but her eyes were tragedies.    "Ah!" said Billy. "Ah--yes--you think--that." He was very careful in  articulating his words, was Billy, and afterward he nodded his head  gravely. The universe had somehow suffered an airy dissolution like  that of Prospero's masque--Selwoode and its gardens, the great globe  itself, "the cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn  temples" were all as vanished wraiths. There was only Peggy left--  Peggy with that unimaginable misery in her eyes that he must drive  away somehow. If that was what she thought, there was no way for him  to prove it wasn't so.    "Why, dear me, Mr. Woods," she retorted, carelessly, "what else could  I think?"    Here Mr. Woods blundered.    "Ah, think what you will, Peggy!" he cried, his big voice cracking and  sobbing and resonant with pain. "Ah, my dear, think what you will, but  don't grieve for it, Peggy! Why, if I'm all you say I am, that's no  reason you should suffer for it! Ah, don't, Peggy! In God's name,  don't! I can't bear it, dear," he pleaded with her, helplessly.    Billy was suffering, too. But her sorrow was the chief of his, and 
