affair of the dim yester-years--a mere blurred memory, faint and vague  as a Druidical tenet or a Merovingian squabble.    But the time passed for all that; and eventually--it was just before  dusk--she came, with Martin Jeal's permission, into the room where  Billy was. And beside the big open fireplace, where a wood fire  chattered companionably, sat a very pallid Billy, a rather thin Billy,  with a great many bandages about his head.    You may depend upon it, Margaret was not looking her worst that  afternoon. By actual count, Célestine had done her hair six times  before reaching an acceptable result.    And, "Yes, Célestine, you may get out that pale yellow dress. No,  beautiful, the one with the black satin stripes on the bodice--because  I don't want my hair cast completely in the shade, do I? Now, let me  see--black feather, gloves, large pompadour, _and_ a sweet smile. No,  I don't want a fan--that's a Lydia Languish trade-mark. And _two_ silk  skirts rustling like the deadest leaves imaginable. Yes, I think that  will do. And if you can't hook up my dress without pecking and pecking  at me like that, I'll probably go stark, _staring_ crazy, Célestine,  and then you'll be sorry. No, it isn't a bit tight--are you perfectly  certain there's no powder behind my ears, Célestine? Now, _please_ try  to fasten the collar without pulling all my hair down. Ye-es, I think  that will do, Célestine. Well, it's very nice of you to say so, but I  don't believe I much fancy myself in yellow, after all."    Equipped and armed for conquest, then, she came into the room with a  very tolerable affectation of unconcern. Altogether, it was a quite  effective entrance.    "I've been for a little drive, Billy," she mendaciously informed him.  "That's how you happen to have the opportunity of seeing me in all my  nice new store-clothes. Aren't you pleased, Billy? No, don't you dare  get up!" Margaret stood across the room, peeling off her gloves and  regarding him on the whole with disapproval. "They've been starving  you," she pensively reflected. "As soon as that Jeal person goes away,  I shall have six little beefsteaks cooked and see to it personally 
