add another film to what had been burying the city for the last fifty  thousand years.    The red loess lay over everything, covering the streets and the open  spaces of park and plaza, hiding the small houses that had been crushed  and pressed flat under it and the rubble that had come down from the  tall buildings when roofs had caved in and walls had toppled outward.  Here, where she stood, the ancient streets were a hundred to a hundred  and fifty feet below the surface; the breach they had made in the wall  of the building behind her had opened into the sixth story. She could  look down on the cluster of prefabricated huts and sheds, on the  brush-grown flat that had been the waterfront when this place had been a  seaport on the ocean that was now Syrtis Depression; already, the bright  metal was thinly coated with red dust. She thought, again, of what  clearing this city would mean, in terms of time and labor, of people and  supplies and equipment brought across fifty million miles of space.  They'd have to use machinery; there was no other way it could be done.  Bulldozers and power shovels and draglines; they were fast, but they  were rough and indiscriminate. She remembered the digs around Harappa  and Mohenjo-Daro, in the Indus Valley, and the careful, patient native  laborers--the painstaking foremen, the pickmen and spademen, the long  files of basketmen carrying away the earth. Slow and primitive as the  civilization whose ruins they were uncovering, yes, but she could count  on the fingers of one hand the times one of her pickmen had damaged a  valuable object in the ground. If it hadn't been for the underpaid and  uncomplaining native laborer, archaeology would still be back where  Wincklemann had found it. But on Mars there was no native labor; the  last Martian had died five hundred centuries ago.    Something started banging like a machine gun, four or five hundred yards  to her left. A solenoid jack-hammer; Tony Lattimer must have decided  which building he wanted to break into next. She became conscious, then,  of the awkward weight of her equipment, and began redistributing it,  shifting the straps of her oxy-tank pack, slinging the camera from one 
