 Koremitsu, paying out an electric cable behind. When it pulled up beside  the truck, they climbed out; Sachiko attached the free end of the cable  to a nuclear-electric battery. At once, dirty gray smoke and orange dust  puffed out from the wall of the building, and, a second later, the  multiple explosion banged.    She and Tony Lattimer and Major Lindemann climbed onto the truck,  leaving the jeep stand by the road. When they reached the building, a  satisfyingly wide breach had been blown in the wall. Lattimer had placed  his shots between two of the windows; they were both blown out along  with the wall between, and lay unbroken on the ground. Martha remembered  the first building they had entered. A Space Force officer had picked up  a stone and thrown it at one of the windows, thinking that would be all  they'd need to do. It had bounced back. He had drawn his pistol--they'd  all carried guns, then, on the principle that what they didn't know  about Mars might easily hurt them--and fired four shots. The bullets had  ricocheted, screaming thinly; there were four coppery smears of  jacket-metal on the window, and a little surface spalling. Somebody  tried a rifle; the 4000-f.s. bullet had cracked the glasslike pane  without penetrating. An oxyacetylene torch had taken an hour to cut the  window out; the lab crew, aboard the ship, were still trying to find out  just what the stuff was.    Tony Lattimer had gone forward and was sweeping his flashlight back and  forth, swearing petulantly, his voice harshened and amplified by his  helmet-speaker.    "I thought I was blasting into a hallway; this lets us into a room.  Careful; there's about a two-foot drop to the floor, and a lot of rubble  from the blast just inside."    He stepped down through the breach; the others began dragging equipment  out of the trucks--shovels and picks and crowbars and sledges, portable  floodlights, cameras, sketching materials, an extension ladder, even  Alpinists' ropes and crampons and pickaxes. Hubert Penrose was  shouldering something that looked like a surrealist machine gun but  which was really a nuclear-electric jack-hammer. Martha selected one of  the spike-shod mountaineer's ice axes, with which she could dig or chop 
