 dismissed the subject and turned to Penrose. "I picked out the next  building to enter; that tall one with the conical thing on top. It ought  to be in pretty good shape inside; the conical top wouldn't allow dust  to accumulate, and from the outside nothing seems to be caved in or  crushed. Ground level's higher than the other one, about the seventh  floor. I found a good place and drilled for the shots; tomorrow I'll  blast a hole in it, and if you can spare some people to help, we can  start exploring it right away."    "Yes, of course, Dr. Lattimer. I can spare about a dozen, and I suppose  you can find a few civilian volunteers," Penrose told him. "What will  you need in the way of equipment?"    "Oh, about six demolition-packets; they can all be shot together. And  the usual thing in the way of lights, and breaking and digging tools,  and climbing equipment in case we run into broken or doubtful stairways.  We'll divide into two parties. Nothing ought to be entered for the first  time without a qualified archaeologist along. Three parties, if Martha  can tear herself away from this catalogue of systematized  incomprehensibilities she's making long enough to do some real work."    She felt her chest tighten and her face become stiff. She was pressing  her lips together to lock in a furious retort when Hubert Penrose  answered for her.    "Dr. Dane's been doing as much work, and as important work, as you  have," he said brusquely. "More important work, I'd be inclined to say."    Von Ohlmhorst was visibly distressed; he glanced once toward Sid  Chamberlain, then looked hastily away from him. Afraid of a story of  dissension among archaeologists getting out.    "Working out a system of pronunciation by which the Martian language  could be transliterated was a most important contribution," he said.  "And Martha did that almost unassisted."    "Unassisted by Dr. Lattimer, anyway," Penrose added. "Captain Field and  Lieutenant Koremitsu did some work, and I helped out a little, but  nine-tenths of it she did herself."    "Purely arbitrary," Lattimer disdained. "Why, we don't even know that 
