Ohlmhorst took the two glasses to the table for refills.    "You know, Martha," he said, when he returned, "Tony was right about one  thing. You are gambling your professional standing and reputation. It's  against all archaeological experience that a language so completely dead  as this one could be deciphered. There was a continuity between all the  other ancient languages--by knowing Greek, Champollion learned to read  Egyptian; by knowing Egyptian, Hittite was learned. That's why you and  your colleagues have never been able to translate the Harappa  hieroglyphics; no such continuity exists there. If you insist that this  utterly dead language can be read, your reputation will suffer for it."    "I heard Colonel Penrose say, once, that an officer who's afraid to risk  his military reputation seldom makes much of a reputation. It's the same  with us. If we really want to find things out, we have to risk making  mistakes. And I'm a lot more interested in finding things out than I am  in my reputation."    She glanced across the room, to where Tony Lattimer was sitting with  Gloria Standish, talking earnestly, while Gloria sipped one of the  counterfeit martinis and listened. Gloria was the leading contender for  the title of Miss Mars, 1996, if you liked big bosomy blondes, but Tony  would have been just as attentive to her if she'd looked like the Wicked  Witch in "The Wizard of Oz." because Gloria was the Pan-Federation  Telecast System commentator with the expedition.    "I know you are," the old Turco-German was saying. "That's why, when  they asked me to name another archaeologist for this expedition, I named  you."    He hadn't named Tony Lattimer; Lattimer had been pushed onto the  expedition by his university. There'd been a lot of high-level  string-pulling to that; she wished she knew the whole story. She'd  managed to keep clear of universities and university politics; all her  digs had been sponsored by non-academic foundations or art museums.    "You have an excellent standing: much better than my own, at your age.  That's why it disturbs me to see you jeopardizing it by this insistence  that the Martian language can be translated. I can't, really, see how 
