 The next page was the beginning of the first article listed; many of the  words were unfamiliar. She had the impression that this must be some  kind of scientific or technical journal; that could be because such  publications made up the bulk of her own periodical reading. She doubted  if it were fiction; the paragraphs had a solid, factual look.    At length, Ivan Fitzgerald gave a short, explosive grunt.    "Ha! Got it!"    She looked up. He had detached the page and was cementing another  plastic sheet onto it.    "Any pictures?" she asked.    "None on this side. Wait a moment." He turned the sheet. "None on this  side, either." He sprayed another sheet of plastic to sandwich the page,  then picked up his pipe and relighted it.    "I get fun out of this, and it's good practice for my hands, so don't  think I'm complaining," he said, "but, Martha, do you honestly think  anybody's ever going to get anything out of this?"    Sachiko held up a scrap of the silicone plastic the Martians had used  for paper with her tweezers. It was almost an inch square.    "Look; three whole words on this piece," she crowed. "Ivan, you took the  easy book."    Fitzgerald wasn't being sidetracked. "This stuff's absolutely  meaningless," he continued. "It had a meaning fifty thousand years ago,  when it was written, but it has none at all now."    She shook her head. "Meaning isn't something that evaporates with time,"  she argued. "It has just as much meaning now as it ever had. We just  haven't learned how to decipher it."    "That seems like a pretty pointless distinction," Selim von Ohlmhorst  joined the conversation. "There no longer exists a means of deciphering  it."    "We'll find one." She was speaking, she realized, more in  self-encouragement than in controversy.    "How? From pictures and captions? We've found captioned pictures, and  what have they given us? A caption is intended to explain the picture,  not the picture to explain the caption. Suppose some alien to our  culture found a picture of a man with a white beard and mustache sawing 
