 excitement, broke in with interruptions. Von Ohlmhorst was staring in  incredulous amazement.    "But this floor was looted almost clean, and the buildings we've entered  before were all looted from the street level up," he said, at length.    "The people who looted this one lived here," Penrose replied. "They had  electric power to the last; we found refrigerators full of food, and  stoves with the dinner still on them. They must have used the elevators  to haul things down from the upper floor. The whole first floor was  converted into workshops and laboratories. I think that this place must  have been something like a monastery in the Dark Ages in Europe, or what  such a monastery would have been like if the Dark Ages had followed the  fall of a highly developed scientific civilization. For one thing, we  found a lot of machine guns and light auto-cannon on the street level,  and all the doors were barricaded. The people here were trying to keep a  civilization running after the rest of the planet had gone back to  barbarism; I suppose they'd have to fight off raids by the barbarians  now and then."    "You're not going to insist on making this building into expedition  quarters, I hope, colonel?" von Ohlmhorst asked anxiously.    "Oh, no! This place is an archaeological treasure-house. More than that;  from what I saw, our technicians can learn a lot, here. But you'd better  get this floor cleaned up as soon as you can, though. I'll have the  subsurface part, from the sixth floor down, airsealed. Then we'll put  in oxygen generators and power units, and get a couple of elevators into  service. For the floors above, we can use temporary airsealing floor by  floor, and portable equipment; when we have things atmosphered and  lighted and heated, you and Martha and Tony Lattimer can go to work  systematically and in comfort, and I'll give you all the help I can  spare from the other work. This is one of the biggest things we've found  yet."    Tony Lattimer and his companions came down to the seventh floor a little  later.    "I don't get this, at all," he began, as soon as he joined them. "This 
