lighter flamed clear and steady and the tobacco caught and burned  evenly.    The archaeologists, many of the other civilian scientists, a few of the  Space Force officers and the two news-correspondents, Sid Chamberlain  and Gloria Standish, moved in that evening, setting up cots in vacant  rooms. They installed electric stoves and a refrigerator in the old  Library Reading Room, and put in a bar and lunch counter. For a few  days, the place was full of noise and activity, then, gradually, the  Space Force people and all but a few of the civilians returned to their  own work. There was still the business of airsealing the more habitable  of the buildings already explored, and fitting them up in readiness for  the arrival, in a year and a half, of the five hundred members of the  main expedition. There was work to be done enlarging the landing field  for the ship's rocket craft, and building new chemical-fuel tanks.    There was the work of getting the city's ancient reservoirs cleared of  silt before the next spring thaw brought more water down the underground  aqueducts everybody called canals in mistranslation of Schiaparelli's  Italian word, though this was proving considerably easier than  anticipated. The ancient Canal-Builders must have anticipated a time  when their descendants would no longer be capable of maintenance work,  and had prepared against it. By the day after the University had been  made completely habitable, the actual work there was being done by  Selim, Tony Lattimer and herself, with half a dozen Space Force  officers, mostly girls, and four or five civilians, helping.    *       *       *       *       *    They worked up from the bottom, dividing the floor-surfaces into  numbered squares, measuring and listing and sketching and photographing.  They packaged samples of organic matter and sent them up to the ship for  Carbon-14 dating and analysis; they opened cans and jars and bottles,  and found that everything fluid in them had evaporated, through the  porosity of glass and metal and plastic if there were no other way. 
