   "Well, after fifty thousand years, you can expect something like that,"  Lattimer retorted. "When an archaeologist says something's in good  shape, he doesn't necessarily mean it'll start as soon as you shove a  switch in."    "You didn't notice that it happened when the power was on, did you," one  of the engineers asked, nettled at Lattimer's tone. "Well, it was.  Everything's burned out or shorted or fused together; I saw one busbar  eight inches across melted clean in two. It's a pity we didn't find  things in good shape, even archaeologically speaking. I saw a lot of  interesting things, things in advance of what we're using now. But it'll  take a couple of years to get everything sorted out and figure what it  looked like originally."    "Did it look as though anybody'd made any attempt to fix it?" Martha  asked.    Sachiko shook her head. "They must have taken one look at it and given  up. I don't believe there would have been any possible way to repair  anything."    "Well, that explains why they left. They needed electricity for  lighting, and heating, and all their industrial equipment was  electrical. They had a good life, here, with power; without it, this  place wouldn't have been habitable."    "Then why did they barricade everything from the inside, and how did  they get out?" Lattimer wanted to know.    "To keep other people from breaking in and looting. Last man out  probably barred the last door and slid down a rope from upstairs," von  Ohlmhorst suggested. "This Houdini-trick doesn't worry me too much.  We'll find out eventually."    "Yes, about the time Martha starts reading Martian," Lattimer scoffed.    "That may be just when we'll find out," von Ohlmhorst replied seriously.  "It wouldn't surprise me if they left something in writing when they  evacuated this place."    "Are you really beginning to treat this pipe dream of hers as a serious  possibility, Selim?" Lattimer demanded. "I know, it would be a wonderful  thing, but wonderful things don't happen just because they're wonderful.  Only because they're possible, and this isn't. Let me quote that  
