 "This is the biggest thing yet; the whole history of Mars, stone age to  the end, all on four walls. I'm taking this with the fast shutter, but  we'll telecast it in slow motion, from the beginning to the end. Tony, I  want you to do the voice for it--running commentary, interpretation of  each scene as it's shown. Would you do that?"    Would he do that! Martha thought. If he had a tail, he'd be wagging it  at the very thought.    "Well, there ought to be more murals on the other floors," she said.  "Who wants to come downstairs with us?"    Sachiko did; immediately. Ivan Fitzgerald volunteered. Sid decided to go  upstairs with Tony Lattimer, and Gloria Standish decided to go upstairs,  too. Most of the party would remain on the seventh floor, to help Selim  von Ohlmhorst get it finished. After poking tentatively at the escalator  with the spike of her ice axe, Martha led the way downward.    *       *       *       *       *    The sixth floor was _Darfhulva_, too; military and technological  history, from the character of the murals. They looked around the  central hall, and went down to the fifth; it was like the floors above  except that the big quadrangle was stacked with dusty furniture and  boxes. Ivan Fitzgerald, who was carrying the floodlight, swung it slowly  around. Here the murals were of heroic-sized Martians, so human in  appearance as to seem members of her own race, each holding some  object--a book, or a test tube, or some bit of scientific apparatus, and  behind them were scenes of laboratories and factories, flame and smoke,  lightning-flashes. The word at the top of each of the four walls was one  with which she was already familiar--_Sornhulva_.    "Hey, Martha; there's that word," Ivan Fitzgerald exclaimed. "The one in  the title of your magazine." He looked at the paintings. "Chemistry, or  physics."    "Both." Hubert Penrose considered. "I don't think the Martians made any  sharp distinction between them. See, the old fellow with the scraggly 
