numbers, one to ten, spelled out.    "_Doma_'s the fifth month. That was your first Martian word, Martha,"  Penrose told her. "The word for five. And if _davas_ is the word for  metal, and _sornhulva_ is chemistry and / or physics, I'll bet Tadavas  Sornhulva is literally translated as: Of-Metal Matter-Knowledge.  Metallurgy, in other words. I wonder what Mastharnorvod means." It  surprised her that, after so long and with so much happening in the  meantime, he could remember that. "Something like 'Journal,' or  'Review,' or maybe 'Quarterly.'"    "We'll work that out, too," she said confidently. After this, nothing  seemed impossible. "Maybe we can find--" Then she stopped short. "You  said 'Quarterly.' I think it was 'Monthly,' instead. It was dated for a  specific month, the fifth one. And if _nor_ is ten, Mastharnorvod could  be 'Year-Tenth.' And I'll bet we'll find that _masthar_ is the word for  year." She looked at the table on the wall again. "Well, let's get all  these words down, with translations for as many as we can."    "Let's take a break for a minute," Penrose suggested, getting out his  cigarettes. "And then, let's do this in comfort. Jeff, suppose you and  Sid go across the hall and see what you find in the other room in the  way of a desk or something like that, and a few chairs. There'll be a  lot of work to do on this."    Sid Chamberlain had been squirming as though he were afflicted with  ants, trying to contain himself. Now he let go with an excited jabber.    "This is really it! _The_ it, not just it-of-the-week, like finding the  reservoirs or those statues or this building, or even the animals and  the dead Martians! Wait till Selim and Tony see this! Wait till Tony  sees it; I want to see his face! And when I get this on telecast, all  Terra's going to go nuts about it!" He turned to Captain Miles. "Jeff,  suppose you take a look at that other door, while I find somebody to  send to tell Selim and Tony. And Gloria; wait till she sees this--"    "Take it easy, Sid," Martha cautioned. "You'd better let me have a look 
