power-source, whatever that had been, had failed.    The middle basement had also been used, at least toward the end, for  storage; it was cut in half by a partition pierced by but one door. They  took half an hour to force this, and were on the point of sending above  for heavy equipment when it yielded enough for them to squeeze through.  Fitzgerald, in the lead with the light, stopped short, looked around,  and then gave a groan that came through his helmet-speaker like a  foghorn.    "Oh, no! _No!_"    "What's the matter, Ivan?" Sachiko, entering behind him, asked  anxiously.    He stepped aside. "Look at it, Sachi! Are we going to have to do all  that?"    Martha crowded through behind her friend and looked around, then stood  motionless, dizzy with excitement. Books. Case on case of books, half an  acre of cases, fifteen feet to the ceiling. Fitzgerald, and Penrose, who  had pushed in behind her, were talking in rapid excitement; she only  heard the sound of their voices, not their words. This must be the main  stacks of the university library--the entire literature of the vanished  race of Mars. In the center, down an aisle between the cases, she could  see the hollow square of the librarians' desk, and stairs and a  dumb-waiter to the floor above.    She realized that she was walking forward, with the others, toward this.  Sachiko was saying: "I'm the lightest; let me go first." She must be  talking about the spidery metal stairs.    "I'd say they were safe," Penrose answered. "The trouble we've had with  doors around here shows that the metal hasn't deteriorated."    In the end, the Japanese girl led the way, more catlike than ever in her  caution. The stairs were quite sound, in spite of their fragile  appearance, and they all followed her. The floor above was a duplicate  of the room they had entered, and seemed to contain about as many books.  Rather than waste time forcing the door here, they returned to the  middle basement and came up by the escalator down which they had  originally descended.    The upper basement contained kitchens--electric stoves, some with pots 
