  The light came from the end wall, and grew ever brighter until its  intolerable glare caused my eyes acute pain, and involuntarily I closed  them. It may have been a few seconds before I was able to open them. The  first thing I noticed was that the light had decreased, greatly; so that  it no longer tried my eyes. Then, as it grew still duller, I was aware,  all at once, that, instead of looking at the redness, I was staring  through it, and through the wall beyond.    Gradually, as I became more accustomed to the idea, I realized that I  was looking out on to a vast plain, lit with the same gloomy twilight  that pervaded the room. The immensity of this plain scarcely can be  conceived. In no part could I perceive its confines. It seemed to  broaden and spread out, so that the eye failed to perceive any  limitations. Slowly, the details of the nearer portions began to grow  clear; then, in a moment almost, the light died away, and the vision--if  vision it were--faded and was gone.    Suddenly, I became conscious that I was no longer in the chair.  Instead, I seemed to be hovering above it, and looking down at a dim  something, huddled and silent. In a little while, a cold blast struck  me, and I was outside in the night, floating, like a bubble, up through  the darkness. As I moved, an icy coldness seemed to enfold me, so that  I shivered.    After a time, I looked to right and left, and saw the intolerable  blackness of the night, pierced by remote gleams of fire. Onward,  outward, I drove. Once, I glanced behind, and saw the earth, a small  crescent of blue light, receding away to my left. Further off, the sun,  a splash of white flame, burned vividly against the dark.    An indefinite period passed. Then, for the last time, I saw the  earth--an enduring globule of radiant blue, swimming in an eternity of  ether. And there I, a fragile flake of soul dust, flickered silently  across the void, from the distant blue, into the expanse of the unknown.    A great while seemed to pass over me, and now I could nowhere see 
