The room was much lighter. The night air blew in, coldly, through the  shattered panes. Down below, in the night, I could hear a soft moaning,  and a confused murmur of swine-voices.    Stepping to one side of the window, I reloaded, and then stood there,  waiting. Presently, I heard a scuffling noise. From where I stood in the  shadow, I could see, without being seen.    Nearer came the sounds, and then I saw something come up above the  sill, and clutch at the broken window-frame. It caught a piece of the  woodwork; and, now, I could make out that it was a hand and arm. A  moment later, the face of one of the Swine-creatures rose into view.  Then, before I could use my rifle, or do anything, there came a sharp  crack--cr-ac-k; and the window-frame gave way under the weight of the  Thing. Next instant, a squashing thud, and a loud outcry, told me that  it had fallen to the ground. With a savage hope that it had been killed,  I went to the window. The moon had gone behind a cloud, so that I could  see nothing; though a steady hum of jabbering, just beneath where I  stood, indicated that there were several more of the brutes close  at hand.    As I stood there, looking down, I marveled how it had been possible for  the creatures to climb so far; for the wall is comparatively smooth,  while the distance to the ground must be, at least, eighty feet.    All at once, as I bent, peering, I saw something, indistinctly, that  cut the grey shadow of the house-side, with a black line. It passed the  window, to the left, at a distance of about two feet. Then, I remembered  that it was a gutter-pipe, that had been put there some years ago, to  carry off the rainwater. I had forgotten about it. I could see, now, how  the creatures had managed to reach the window. Even as the solution came  to me, I heard a faint slithering, scratching noise, and knew that  another of the brutes was coming. I waited some odd moments; then leant  out of the window and felt the pipe. To my delight, I found that it was 
