  Pepper followed, stopping at the doorstep to sniff, suspiciously; and  carrying his nose up and down the jambs, as though following a scent.  Then, suddenly, he turned, sharply, and started to run here and there,  in semicircles and circles, all around the door; finally returning to  the threshold. Here, he began again to nose about.    Hitherto, I had stood, watching the dog; yet, all the time, with half  my gaze on the wild tangle of gardens, stretching 'round me. Now, I went  toward him, and, bending down, examined the surface of the door, where  he was smelling. I found that the wood was covered with a network of  scratches, crossing and recrossing one another, in inextricable  confusion. In addition to this, I noticed that the doorposts,  themselves, were gnawed in places. Beyond these, I could find nothing;  and so, standing up, I began to make the tour of the house wall.    Pepper, as soon as I walked away, left the door, and ran ahead, still  nosing and sniffing as he went along. At times, he stopped to  investigate. Here, it would be a bullet-hole in the pathway, or,  perhaps, a powder stained wad. Anon, it might be a piece of torn sod, or  a disturbed patch of weedy path; but, save for such trifles, he found  nothing. I observed him, critically, as he went along, and could  discover nothing of uneasiness, in his demeanor, to indicate that he  felt the nearness of any of the creatures. By this, I was assured that  the gardens were empty, at least for the present, of those hateful  Things. Pepper could not be easily deceived, and it was a relief to feel  that he would know, and give me timely warning, if there were  any danger.    Reaching the place where I had shot that first creature, I stopped, and  made a careful scrutiny; but could see nothing. From there, I went on to  where the great copingstone had fallen. It lay on its side, apparently  just as it had been left when I shot the brute that was moving it. A  couple of feet to the right of the nearer end, was a great dent in the 
