Suddenly, there rose a loud roar of swine-voices, and, up from the  center of the roofless house, shot a vast column of blood-red flame. I  saw the little, twisted towers and turrets flash into fire; yet still  preserving their twisted crookedness. The beams of the Green Sun, beat  upon the house, and intermingled with its lurid glows; so that it  appeared a blazing furnace of red and green fire.    Fascinated, I watched, until an overwhelming sense of coming danger,  drew my attention. I glanced up, and, at once, it was borne upon me,  that the sun was closer; so close, in fact, that it seemed to overhang  the world. Then--I know not how--I was caught up into strange  heights--floating like a bubble in the awful effulgence.    Far below me, I saw the earth, with the burning house leaping into an  ever growing mountain of flame, 'round about it, the ground appeared to  be glowing; and, in places, heavy wreaths of yellow smoke ascended from  the earth. It seemed as though the world were becoming ignited from that  one plague-spot of fire. Faintly, I could see the Swine-things. They  appeared quite unharmed. Then the ground seemed to cave in, suddenly,  and the house, with its load of foul creatures, disappeared into the  depths of the earth, sending a strange, blood colored cloud into the  heights. I remembered the hell Pit under the house.    In a while, I looked 'round. The huge bulk of the sun, rose high above  me. The distance between it and the earth, grew rapidly less. Suddenly,  the earth appeared to shoot forward. In a moment, it had traversed the  space between it and the sun. I heard no sound; but, out from the sun's  face, gushed an ever-growing tongue of dazzling flame. It seemed to  leap, almost to the distant Green Sun--shearing through the emerald  light, a very cataract of blinding fire. It reached its limit, and sank;  and, on the sun, glowed a vast splash of burning white--the grave of  the earth.    The sun was very close to me, now. Presently, I found that I was rising  higher; until, at last, I rode above it, in the emptiness. The Green Sun 
