      THE FRAGMENTS[2]    (_The legible portions of the mutilated leaves_.)    ... through tears ... noise of eternity in my ears, we parted ... She  whom I love. O, my God ...!    I was a great time dazed, and then I was alone in the blackness of the  night. I knew that I journeyed back, once more, to the known universe.  Presently, I emerged from that enormous darkness. I had come among the  stars ... vast time ... the sun, far and remote.    I entered into the gulf that separates our system from the outer suns.  As I sped across the dividing dark, I watched, steadily, the  ever-growing brightness and size of our sun. Once, I glanced back to the  stars, and saw them shift, as it were, in my wake, against the mighty  background of night, so vast was the speed of my passing spirit.    I drew nigher to our system, and now I could see the shine of Jupiter.  Later, I distinguished the cold, blue gleam of the earthlight.... I had  a moment of bewilderment. All about the sun there seemed to be bright,  objects, moving in rapid orbits. Inward, nigh to the savage glory of the  sun, there circled two darting points of light, and, further off, there  flew a blue, shining speck, that I knew to be the earth. It circled the  sun in a space that seemed to be no more than an earth-minute.    ... nearer with great speed. I saw the radiances of Jupiter and  Saturn, spinning, with incredible swiftness, in huge orbits. And ever I  drew more nigh, and looked out upon this strange sight--the visible  circling of the planets about the mother sun. It was as though time had  been annihilated for me; so that a year was no more to my unfleshed  spirit, than is a moment to an earth-bound soul.    The speed of the planets, appeared to increase; and, presently, I was  watching the sun, all ringed about with hair-like circles of different  colored fire--the paths of the planets, hurtling at mighty speed, about  the central flame....    "... the sun grew vast, as though it leapt to meet me.... And now I was 
