  My thoughts went back to the White Orb. Strange, that it should have  been--I stopped. An idea had come, suddenly. The White Orb and the Green  Sun! Were they one and the same? My imagination wandered backward, and I  remembered the luminous globe to which I had been so unaccountably  attracted. It was curious that I should have forgotten it, even  momentarily. Where were the others? I reverted again to the globe I had  entered. I thought, for a time, and matters became clearer. I conceived  that, by entering that impalpable globule, I had passed, at once, into  some further, and, until then, invisible dimension; There, the Green Sun  was still visible; but as a stupendous sphere of pale, white  light--almost as though its ghost showed, and not its material part.    A long time, I mused on the subject. I remembered how, on entering the  sphere, I had, immediately, lost all sight of the others. For a still  further period, I continued to revolve the different details in my mind.    In a while, my thoughts turned to other things. I came more into the  present, and began to look about me, seeingly. For the first time, I  perceived that innumerable rays, of a subtle, violet hue, pierced the  strange semi-darkness, in all directions. They radiated from the fiery  rim of the Green Sun. They seemed to grow upon my vision, so that, in a  little, I saw that they were countless. The night was filled with  them--spreading outward from the Green Sun, fan-wise. I concluded that I  was enabled to see them, by reason of the Sun's glory being cut off by  the eclipse. They reached right out into space, and vanished.    Gradually, as I looked, I became aware that fine points of intensely  brilliant light, traversed the rays. Many of them seemed to travel from  the Green Sun, into distance. Others came out of the void, toward the  Sun; but one and all, each kept strictly to the ray in which it  traveled. Their speed was inconceivably great; and it was only when they  neared the Green Sun, or as they left it, that I could see them as  separate specks of light. Further from the sun, they became thin lines 
