Years--and years.    Outside, the weaving, fluttering light held the world. Inside, I stood,  trying to understand what it meant--what that little pile of dust and  dry bones, on the carpet, meant. But I could not think, coherently.    I glanced away, 'round the room, and now, for the first time, noticed  how dusty and old the place looked. Dust and dirt everywhere; piled in  little heaps in the corners, and spread about upon the furniture. The  very carpet, itself, was invisible beneath a coating of the same, all  pervading, material. As I walked, little clouds of the stuff rose up  from under my footsteps, and assailed my nostrils, with a dry, bitter  odor that made me wheeze, huskily.    Suddenly, as my glance fell again upon Pepper's remains, I stood still,  and gave voice to my confusion--questioning, aloud, whether the years  were, indeed, passing; whether this, which I had taken to be a form of  vision, was, in truth, a reality. I paused. A new thought had struck me.  Quickly, but with steps which, for the first time, I noticed, tottered,  I went across the room to the great pier-glass, and looked in. It was  too covered with grime, to give back any reflection, and, with trembling  hands, I began to rub off the dirt. Presently, I could see myself. The  thought that had come to me, was confirmed. Instead of the great, hale  man, who scarcely looked fifty, I was looking at a bent, decrepit man,  whose shoulders stooped, and whose face was wrinkled with the years of a  century. The hair--which a few short hours ago had been nearly coal  black--was now silvery white. Only the eyes were bright. Gradually, I  traced, in that ancient man, a faint resemblance to my self of  other days.    I turned away, and tottered to the window. I knew, now, that I was old,  and the knowledge seemed to confirm my trembling walk. For a little  space, I stared moodily out into the blurred vista of changeful  landscape. Even in that short time, a year passed, and, with a petulant  gesture, I left the window. As I did so, I noticed that my hand shook  
