  Suddenly, although there is no noise, I am awake--wide awake. I am  acutely conscious of the nearness of some mystery, of some overwhelming  Presence. The very air seems pregnant with terror. I sit huddled, and  just listen, intently. Still, there is no sound. Nature, herself, seems  dead. Then, the oppressive stillness is broken by a little eldritch  scream of wind, that sweeps 'round the house, and dies away, remotely.    I let my gaze wander across the half-lighted room. By the great clock  in the far corner, is a dark, tall shadow. For a short instant, I stare,  frightenedly. Then, I see that it is nothing, and am, momentarily,  relieved.    In the time that follows, the thought flashes through my brain, why  not leave this house--this house of mystery and terror? Then, as though  in answer, there sweeps up, across my sight, a vision of the wondrous  Sea of Sleep,--the Sea of Sleep where she and I have been allowed to  meet, after the years of separation and sorrow; and I know that I shall  stay on here, whatever happens.    Through the side window, I note the somber blackness of the night. My  glance wanders away, and 'round the room; resting on one shadowy object  and another. Suddenly, I turn, and look at the window on my right; as I  do so, I breathe quickly, and bend forward, with a frightened gaze at  something outside the window, but close to the bars. I am looking at a  vast, misty swine-face, over which fluctuates a flamboyant flame, of a  greenish hue. It is the Thing from the arena. The quivering mouth seems  to drip with a continual, phosphorescent slaver. The eyes are staring  straight into the room, with an inscrutable expression. Thus, I sit  rigidly--frozen.    The Thing has begun to move. It is turning, slowly, in my direction.  Its face is coming 'round toward me. It sees me. Two huge, inhumanly  human, eyes are looking through the dimness at me. I am cold with fear;  yet, even now, I am keenly conscious, and note, in an irrelevant way,  that the distant stars are blotted out by the mass of the giant face. 
