And held in front of him the slender figure of a girl. Hope! He clutched  her, his thick arm encircling her breast. With sinking heart I realized  what had happened. Hope had moved away from me. Every one in the room  had been intent upon Derek. Rohbar had come quietly in, after murdering  the king, had seized Hope, stifled her outcry, and had taken her up into  the tower.    And I had promised Derek that I would shield this girl from harm! The  horror of it--the self-condemnation of it--swept me, froze me to  numbness. I could not think; I could only stand and stare. Rohbar held  Hope like a shield before him. The low railing hardly reached her knees.  A sheer drop to the garden beneath. He held her tightly, and in his free  hand I saw his dirk come up menacingly against her white throat. His  voice called:    "Silent, down there! Alexandre, you traitor! Silence!"    Derek stared up. The triumph faded from him. He stared, stricken. The  crowd stared. The soldiers on the lower platform ceased their shouting  and gazed up at these new actors, come so unexpectedly upon the stage.  Again Rohbar called, to the guards this time:    "I represent your King Leonto. This Alexandre is a traitor to us all.  And he cannot harm me! I defy him. Look at him! I defy him to use his  evil weapon upon me!"    Derek was silent. A single adverse move and Rohbar's knife would stab  into Hope's throat. Derek's ray was powerless. A flash from it would  have killed Hope, not Rohbar.    The king's soldiers saw Derek's indecision. One of them shouted, "He  cannot harm us! Look, he is frightened!"    The crowd recognized Hope. They began calling her name. And calling,  "Master Rohbar, do not harm our Hope!"    "I will not harm her! Not if you do what I tell you! Leave the  garden--go quietly! I will deal with this traitor!"    He added to the guards, "Go up and seize him! He cannot hurt you!  Traitor! Seize him! If he does not yield--if any of this crowd attacks  you--then I will kill Hope." 
