  Frantically Quest strove to answer him, to explain his utter subjection,  as Agent, to say that if he had possessed the will to oppose or trick  him he would have turned him over to the police, or might even have  killed him, at the very outset. But in his frenzy, Keane had so  tightened his control that Quest was speechless. Now he tried to  substitute gesture for words, but Philip was rooted to the spot like a  statue; even his hands were immovable.    He might have remained in this state indefinitely had not Keane's fears  withdrawn his mind from his immediate surroundings. Momentarily he  forgot Quest, Philip--everything but himself and his predicament. And in  the instant that his vigilance relaxed, Quest's enslaved will  experienced a sudden lease of strength and hope. Independently of his  Control, he found that he could move Philip's hand, could take a  faltering step.    But now, what to do? How might he fan this feeble spark of volition to  sufficient strength for decisive resistance? The idea came to him: if  only he could place distance between himself and Keane, perhaps with one  titanic effort he might launch himself against the Master Will, take him  by surprise, crush him down, and reverse him to the status of Agent  instead of Control.    With infinite effort Quest forced Philip's body step by step across the  room. He must reach that window, get a signal of distress to someone in  the street.    But Keane began to sense a mutiny. He followed. He crossed the floor  with slinking, tigerish steps and snaking body. His wet lips writhed  back over his teeth, and his contorted features wove the leer of the  abyss. Now as his Control drew physically near, Quest felt his mite of  strength ebbing fast. Slowly Keane reached up with his clawed fingers  and grasped his Agent by the arm.    "Remember!" he hissed, "if these deaths are traced to us, you break  down--you confess--you take the blame--you paint me lily white--you  describe the cowardly means by which you moulded me to your will--you  plead only for a quick trial and the full penalty of the law. You 
