 Had you, a visitor, departed from Laketon when Old Crompton did and  returned twelve years later, you would have noticed very little  difference in the appearance of the village. The old town hall and the  little park were the same, the dingy brick building among the trees  being just a little dingier and its wooden steps more worn and sagged.  The main street showed evidence of recent repaving, and, in consequence  of the resulting increase in through automobile traffic; there were two  new gasoline filling stations in the heart of the town. Down the road  about a half mile there was a new building, which, upon inquiring from  one of the natives, would be proudly designated as the new high school  building. Otherwise there were no changes to be observed.    In his dilapidated chair in the untidy office he had occupied for nearly  thirty years, sat Asa Culkin, popularly known as "Judge" Culkin. Justice  of the peace, sheriff, attorney-at-law, and three times Mayor of  Laketon, he was still a controlling factor in local politics and  government. And many a knotty legal problem was settled in that gloomy  little office. Many a dispute in the town council was dependent for  arbitration upon the keen mind and understanding wit of the old judge.    The four o'clock train had just puffed its labored way from the station  when a stranger entered his office, a stranger of uncommonly prosperous  air. The keen blue eyes of the old attorney appraised him instantly and  classified him as a successful man of business, not yet forty years of  age, and with a weighty problem on his mind.    "What can I do for you, sir?" he asked, removing his feet from the  battered desk top.    "You may be able to help me a great deal, Judge," was the unexpected  reply. "I came to Laketon to give myself up."    "Give yourself up?" Culkin rose to his feet in surprise and  unconsciously straightened his shoulders in the effort to seem less  dwarfed before the tall stranger. "Why, what do you mean?" he inquired.    *       *       *       *       * 
