   The insect horde is ruled by a human from the outside world--a  drug-doped madman. Dodd recognizes this man as Bram, the archaeologist  who had been lost years before at the Pole and given up for dead by a  world he had hated because it refused to accept his radical scientific  theories. His fiendish mind now plans the horrible revenge of leading  his unconquerable horde of monster insects forth to ravage the world,  destroy the human race and establish a new era--the era of the insect.    The world has to be warned of the impending doom. The two, with Haidia,  a girl of Submundia, escape, and pass through menacing dangers to within  two miles of the exit. There, suddenly, Tommy sees towering over him a  creature that turns his blood cold--a gigantic praying mantis. Before he  has time to act, the monster springs at them!      CHAPTER VII    _Through the Inferno_    Fortunately, the monster miscalculated its leap. The huge legs, whirling  through the air, came within a few inches of Tommy's head, but passed  over him, and the mantis plunged into the stream. Instantly the water  was alive with leaping things with faces of such grotesque horror that  Tommy sat paralyzed in his rocking shell, unable to avert his eyes.    Things no more than a foot or two in length, to judge from the slender,  eel-like bodies that leaped into the air, but things with catfish heads  and tentacles, and eyes waving on stalks; things with clawlike  appendages to their ventral fins, and mouths that widened to fearful  size, so that the whole head seemed to disappear above them, disclosing  fangs like wolves'. Instantly the water was churned into phosphorescent  fire as they precipitated themselves upon the struggling mantis, whose  enormous form, extending halfway from shore to shore, was covered with  the river monsters, gnawing, rending, tearing.    Luckily the struggles of the dying monster carried it downstream instead  of up. In a few moments the immediate danger was past. And suddenly  Haidia awoke, sat up.    "Where are we?" she cried. "Oh, I can see! I can see! Something has  burned away from my eyes! I know this place. A wise man of my people 
