  I introduce myself, begging grace that I intrude upon your busy minutes,  with my only excuse that perhaps I may amuse you. For what the  commercial sellers of my pictured version were pleased to blare as my  handsome face, I ask your indulgence. My feminine audience of the  pantomimes was undoubtedly graciously pleased at my personality and  physical aspect. That I am "tall as a Viking of old"--and "handsome as a  young Norse God"--is very pretty talk in the selling of my product. But  I deplore its intrusion into the personality of this, my recorded  narrative. And so now, for preface, to all my audience I do give earnest  assurance that Gregg Haljan is no conceited zebra, handsomely striped by  nature, and proud of it. Not so. I am, I do beg you to believe, a very  humble fellow, striving for your approval, hoping only to entertain  you.    My introduction: My name, Gregg Haljan. My age, twenty-five years. I  was, at the time my narrative begins, Third Officer on the Space-Ship  Planetara. Our line was newly established; in 2070, to be exact,  following the modern improvements of the Martel Magnetic Levitation.[1]    *       *       *       *       *    Our ship, whose home port was Great-New York, carried mail and passenger  traffic to and from both Venus and Mars. Of astronomical necessity, our  flights were irregular. This spring, with the two other planets both  close to the earth, we were making two complete round trips. We had just  arrived in Great-New York, this May evening, from Grebhar, Venus Free  State. With only five hours in port here, we were departing the same  night at the zero hour for Ferrok-Shahn, capital of the Martian Union.    We were no sooner at the landing stage than I found a code-flash  summoning Dan Dean and me to Divisional Detective Headquarters. Dan  "Snap" Dean was one of my closest friends. He was radio-helio operator  of the Planetara. A small, wiry, red-headed chap, with a quick, ready  laugh and a wit that made everyone like him. 
