 voyagers. But I was in no mood to listen. My gaze was down on the spider  incline, up which, over the bend of the ship's sleek, silvery body, the  passengers and their friends were coming in little groups. The upper  deck was already jammed with them.    The Planetara, as flyers go, was not a large vessel. Cylindrical of  body, forty feet maximum beam, and two hundred and seventy-five feet in  overall length. The passenger superstructure--no more than a hundred  feet long--was set amidships. A narrow deck, metallic-enclosed, and with  large bulls-eye windows, encircled the superstructure. Some of the  cabins opened directly onto the deck. Others had doors to the interior  corridors. There were half a dozen small but luxurious public rooms.    *       *       *       *       *    The rest of the vessel was given to freight storage and the mechanism  and control compartments. Forward of the passenger structure the  deck level continued under the cylindrical dome-roof to the bow. The  forward watch-tower observatory was here; officers' cabins; Captain  Carter's navigating rooms and Dr. Frank's office. Similarly, under  the stern-dome, was the stern watch-tower and a series of power  compartments.    Above the superstructure a confusion of spider bridges, ladders and  balconies were laced like a metal network. The turret in which Dr. Frank  and I now stood was perched here. Fifty feet away, like a bird's nest,  Snap's instrument room stood clinging to the metal bridge. The  dome-roof, with the glassite windows rolled back now, rose in a  mound-peak to cover this highest middle portion of the vessel.    Below, in the main hull, blue-lit metal corridors ran the entire length  of the ship. Freight storage compartments; gravity control rooms; the  air renewal systems; heater and ventilators and pressure mechanisms--all  were located there. And the kitchens, stewards' compartments, and the  living quarters of the crew. We carried a crew of sixteen, this voyage,  exclusive of the navigating officers, and the purser, Snap Dean, and Dr.  Frank.    *       *       *       *       * 
