   "They turned on a huge battery of ultra-violet rays then," continued the  hollow droning of the man who had been hanged, "which, as the scientist  had explained to me while in prison, acting upon the contents of the  syringes, by that time scattered through my whole body, was to renew the  spark of life within the dead thing hanging there. Through a tube, and  by means of a valve entering the glass vase in the top, the scientist  then admitted a dense white gas. So thick was it that in a moment or two  my body's transparent coffin appeared to be full of a liquid as white as  milk. Electricity then revolved my cage around so that my body was  insured a complete and even exposure to the rays of the green and violet  lamps. And while all this silly stuff was going on, around and around  the laboratory I floated, confident of the complete failure of the whole  thing, yet determined to see it through if for no other reason than to  see the discomfiture and disappointment that this mere man was bound to  experience. You see, I was already looking back upon earthly mortals as  being inferior, and now as I waited for this proof I was all the while  fighting off a new urge to be going elsewhere. Something was calling me,  beckoning me to be coming into the full spirit world. But I wanted to  see this wise earth guy fail.    "For a little while conditions stayed the same within that glass. So  thick was the liquid gas in there at first that I could see nothing.  Then it began to clear, and I saw to my surprise that the milky gas was  disappearing because it was being forced in by the rays from the lights  in through the pores into the body itself. As though my form was sucking  it in like a sponge. The scientist and his helper were tense and taut  with excitement. And suddenly my comfortable feeling left me. Until then  it had seemed so smooth and velvety and peaceful drifting around over  their heads, as though lying on a soft, fleecy cloud. But now I felt a  sudden squeezing of my spirit body. Then I was in an agony. Before I 
