discovered in Farmer Burns' corn-patch. When the rumor began to gain  credence that it was some sort of meteor from inter-stellar space,  reporters, scientists and college professors flocked to the scene,  desirous of prying off particles for analysis. But they soon  discovered that the Thing was no ordinary meteor, for it glowed at  night with a peculiar luminescence. They also observed that it was  practically weightless, since it had embedded itself in the soft sand  scarcely more than a few inches.    By the time the first group of newspapermen and scientists had reached  the farm, another phenomenon was plainly observable. The Thing was  growing!    Farmer Burns, with an eye to profit, had already built a picket fence  around his starry visitor and was charging admission. He also flatly  refused to permit the chipping off of specimens or even the touching  of the object. His attitude was severely criticized, but he stubbornly  clung to the theory that possession is nine points in law.    *       *       *       *       *    It was Professor Ralston of Princewell who, on the third day after the  fall of the meteor, remarked upon its growth. His colleagues crowded  around him as he pointed out this peculiarity, and soon they  discovered another factor--pulsation!    Larger than a small balloon, and gradually, almost imperceptibly  expanding, with its viscid transparency shot through with opalescent  lights, the Thing lay there in the deepening twilight and palpably  shivered. As darkness descended, a sort of hellish radiance began to  ooze from it. I say hellish, because there is no other word to  describe that spectral, sulphurous emanation.    As the hangers-on around the pickets shudderingly shrank away from the  weird light that was streaming out to them and tinting their faces  with a ghastly, greenish pallor, Farmer Burns' small boy, moved by  some imp of perversity, did a characteristically childish thing. He  picked up a good-sized stone and flung it straight at the nameless  mass!    *       *       *       *       * 
