      The Cavern World    _By James P. Olsen_    [Illustration: _He aimed it, and the Thing gripping him was hurled  back upon the others._]    [Sidenote: A great oil field had gone dry--and Asher, trapped far  under the earth among the revolting Petrolia, learns why.]      "Impossible! What sort of creatures would they be, that could live two  miles beneath the surface of the earth? Surely, Asher, you are  joking!"    R. Briggs Johns, mighty power back of Stan-America Oil Corporation,  looked at Blaine Asher closely, expecting to see the chief geologist  and scientist of the company laugh. But Blaine Asher did not laugh.  Serious, his rather thin face grave as he leaned his tall, muscular  body above a torsion machine he was adjusting, there was nothing to  indicate he had the faintest idea of a joke.    "Why damn it, Asher!" Johns insisted wrathfully, "you don't really  mean that. And"--he took a nervous turn around the laboratory--"if  such a wild thing were possible, what has that to do with our trouble?  You haven't led me on to spend a million dollars drilling a  thirty-six-inch hole, just so you could test a fantastic theory?"    "You know better than that." Asher wiped his hands and leaned against  a table. Johns, looking into the cool gray eyes of the man before him,  did know better. Blaine Asher was more than just a geologist or  scientist. Well he might be termed a master geo-metallurgist. Johns  nodded, wiping beads of perspiration from his brow.    "You say impossible--and want to know how those creatures cause this  field, the largest oil field in the world, to start going bone dry  over night. All right:    "Remember how you laughed when I told you that oil would some day be  mined instead of pumped or flowed from the earth? You couldn't see how  one central shaft could be sunk, then tunnels run back underneath the  oil strata, tapping the sand from the bottom and letting the oil run  down to be pumped out one shaft. Yet, that way, we would get _all_ the  oil, instead of the possible one-eighth of the total amount as we get 
