We gathered at the porte. A last minute change made Grantline order  six of his men to remain guarding the buildings. The instruments--the  Erentz system--all the appliances had to be attended.    It left four platforms, each with three men, with Grantline at the  controls of one of them. And upon the other two of the six Venza rode  with Snap, and I with Anita.    We crouched in the shadows outside the porte. So small an army,  sallying out to bomb this enemy vessel or be killed in the attempt!  Only sixteen of us. And thirty or so brigands.    I envisaged then this tiny Moon-crater, the scene of this battle we  were waging. Struggling humans, desperately trying to kill. Alone here  on this globe. Around us, the wide reaches of Lunar desolation. In all  this world, every human being was gathered here, struggling to kill!    Anita drew me down to the platform. "Ready, Gregg."    The others were rising. We lifted, moved slowly out and away from the  protective shadows of the building.    In a tiny queue the six little platforms sailed out over the valley  toward the brigand ship.      CHAPTER XXXVI    _The Battle in the Crater_    Grantline led us. We held about level. Five hundred feet beneath us  the brigand ship lay, cradled on the rocks. When it was still a mile  away from us I could see all its outline fairly clearly in the  dimness. Its tiny hull-windows were now dark; but the blurred shape of  the hull was visible and above it the rounded cap of dome, with a dim  radiance beneath it.    We followed Grantline's platform. It was rising, drawing the others  after it like a tail. I touched Anita where she lay beside me with her  head half in the small hooded control-bank.    "Going too high."    She nodded, but followed the line nevertheless. It was Grantline's  command.    I lay crouched, holding the inner tips of the flexible side-shields.  The bottom of the platform was covered with the insulated fabric.  There were two side-shields. They extended upward some two feet, 
