together, striking shells exploding nothingness about them. The Ralas  were fighting like demons.    The merged, terrific combat lasted but moments; could last but  moments. Norman, his gun's magazine empty, seemed to see the mass of  struggling ships splittering, diverging; then saw that the black craft  were dropping, plummeting downward toward the waves! The Ralas,  stunned by that minute of terrific combat, were fleeing. Muffled cries  and cheers came from about him as the glittering flying-boats of the  green men shot after them. They crashed down into the waters and  curved deeply into their green-depths, toward the gigantic dome.    *       *       *       *       *    Ahead the Rala boats were in flight toward their city, and now their  pursuers were like sharks striking after them. There in the depths the  force-guns of black and glittering boats alike were spitting, and  giant waves and underwater convulsions rocked pursued and pursuers as  the exploding shells annihilated boats and water about them. The  tunnel! Its round opening yawned in the looming wall ahead, and Norman  saw the Rala craft, reduced to scores in number, hurtling into it, to  rouse all the forces of the great amphibian city. Their own boats were  flashing into the opening after them. He glimpsed as he glanced back  for a moment the larger craft with the great force-bombs veering aside  behind them.    It was nightmare in the water-tunnel. Flashing beams of the craft  ahead and waters that rocked and smashed around them as in flight the  Ralas still rained back force-shells toward them in a chaos of action.  Once the frog-men turned to hold them back in the tunnel, but by sheer  weight the rushing ships of the green men crashed them onward. Boats  were going into nothingness all around them. A part of Norman's brain  wondered calmly why they survived even while another part kept his gun  again working, with refilled magazine. Fellows and Sarja were  grotesque shapes beside him. Abruptly the tunnel curved upward and as  they flashed up after the remaining Rala craft their boats ripped up 
