 the interior of the _Dorlos_.    The _ethon_ tubes overhead made everything as light as day, and since  the _Dorlos_ was a sister ship of my own _Kalid_, I had not the  slightest difficulty in finding my way about.    There was no sign of a disturbance anywhere. Everything was in perfect  order. From the evidence, it would seem that the officers and men of the  _Dorlos_ had deserted the ship of their own accord, and--failed to  return.    "Nothing of value here," I commented to Dival. "We may as well--"    There was a sudden commotion from outside the ship. Startled shouts  rang through the hollow hull, and a confused medley of excited thoughts  came pouring in.    With one accord the four of us dashed to the exit, Dival and I in the  lead. At the door we paused, following the stricken gaze of the men  grouped in a rigid knot just outside.    Some, forty feet away was the edge of the forest that hemmed us in. A  forest that now was lashing and writhing as though in the grip of some  terrible hurricane, trunks bending and whipping, long branches writhing,  curling, lashing out--    "Two of the men, sir!" shouted a non-commissioned officer of the landing  crew, as we appeared in the doorway. In his excitement he forgot his  menore, and resorted to the infinitely slower but more natural speech.  "Some sort of insect came buzzing down--like an Earth bee, but larger.  One of the men slapped it, and jumped aside, forgetting the low gravity  here. He shot into the air, and another of the men made a grab for him.  They both went sailing, and the trees--_look!_"    But I had already spotted the two men. The trees had them in their grip,  long tentacles curled around them, a dozen of the great willow-like  growths apparently fighting for possession of the prizes. And all  around, far out of reach, the trees of the forest were swaying  restlessly, their long, pendulous branches, like tentacles, lashing out  hungrily.    "The rays, sir!" snapped the thought from Dival, like a flash of  lightning. "Concentrate the beams--strike at the trunks--" 
