I was prepared for the fact that each one of the specimens represented a  letter of the alphabet. If nothing else, their number indicated that.  Now I could see, so clearly that the photographs shouted at me, that  each specimen consisted of an upright stem, and from this middle stem  projected side-arms to the right and to the left, and in various  vertical locations on each side.    The middle upright stem contained these side-arms in various numbers  and combinations. In five minutes I had a copy of the message,  translated into its fundamental characters, as shown on Plate II.    [Illustration: Plate I]    The first grass-blade was the simple, upright stem; the second, three  leaflets on their stem, represented the upright portion with two arms to  the left at the top and middle, and one arm to the right at the top; and  so on.    That brought the message down to the simple and straightforward matter  of a substitution cipher. I was confident that Benda had no object in  introducing any complications that could possibly be avoided, as his  sole purpose was to get to me the most readable message without getting  caught at it. I recollected now how cautious he had been to hand me no  paper, and how openly and obviously he had dropped each specimen into my  book; because he knew someone was watching him and expecting him to slip  in a message. He had, as I could see now in the retrospect, been  conspicuously careful that nothing suspicious should pass from his hands  to mine.    [Illustration: Plate II]    Substitution ciphers are easy to solve, especially for those having some  experience. The method can be found in Edgar Allen Poe's "Gold Bug" and  in a host of its imitators. A Secret Service cipher man could have read  it in an hour. But I knew my friend's mind well enough to find a  short-cut. I knew just how he would go about devising such a cipher, in  fact, how ninety-nine persons out of a hundred with a scientific  education would do it.    If we begin adding horizontal arms to the middle stem, from top to 
