"If it does I want my money back," said Stanley. "When you asked me to  finance this expedition for you, I agreed on condition that you would  show me a thrill--some _real_ big game, even if I would not be able to  shoot it. If we draw blank--"    "The mere descent should satisfy you, my adventuring friend," replied  the Professor brusquely. "I think you'll find that thrilling enough."    "But--a mile under the surface!" I marveled, feeling not entirely  comfortable. "The pressure! Enormous! It can't be done! That is, I mean,  can it be done?"    "It had better be," said Stanley with a humor that I did not entirely  appreciate. "If it isn't, the three of us are going to be pressed out  like three sheets of tissue paper! For we are assuredly going down that  far in the Professor's gadget."    "Was that the thing I saw hoisted aboard just before we left?"    "That was it. We'll stroll around after lunch and look it over."    If I had taken this cruise in search of distraction--I was surely going  to be successful! That was plain!    "Just where are we going?" I asked. "You said something about the South  Seas, but you've named no special part of them."    "We're bound for Penguin Deep. That's a delightful little dimple in the  Kermadec Trough, which," Stanley explained, "is north-northeast of New  Zealand almost halfway up to the Fiji Islands. Penguin Deep is ticketed  at five thousand one hundred and fifty feet, but it probably runs deeper  in spots."    The rest of the meal was consumed in silence. I hardly tasted what I  ate; I remember that. Over five thousand feet down--where no man had  ever ventured before! Could we make it?    I tried to recall my neglected physics lessons and compute the pressure  that far down. I couldn't. But I knew it must be an appalling total of  tons to the square inch. What possible arrangement could they have  brought in which to make that awful descent?    And, if the descent were accomplished, what in the world would we see  when we got down there? Gigantic, hitherto unknown fishes? Marine 
