would not be likely to pursue. All the roads leading out of  Washington--into Virginia, into Maryland, were congested with columns  of fugitives that stretched for miles.    Some, who were fortunate enough to possess automobiles, and--what was  rarer--a few gallons of gas, were trying to force their way through  the masses ahead of them; here and there a family trudged beside a  pack-horse, or a big dog drew an improvised sled on wheels, loaded  with flour, bacon, blankets, pillows. Old men and young children  trudged on uncomplaining.    The telegraph wires were still, for the most part, working. All the  world knew what was happening. From all the big cities of the East a  similar exodus was proceeding. There was little bitterness and little  disorder.    It was not the airship raids from which these crowds were fleeing.  Something grimmer was happening. The murderous attack upon the  populace about the Capitol had been merely an incident. This later  development was the fulfilment of the Invisible Emperor's ultimatum.    Death was afield, death, invisible, instantaneous, and inevitable.  Death blown on the winds, in the form of the deadliest of unknown  gases.    *       *       *       *       *    In the Blue Room of the White House a score of experts had gathered.  Dick, too, with the chiefs of his staff, Stopford, and the army and  naval heads. Among them was the chief of the Meteorological Bureau,  and it was to him primarily that Tomlinson was reading a telegraphic  dispatch from Wilmington, South Carolina:    "The Invisible Death has reached this point and is working havoc  throughout the city, spreading from street to street. Men are dropping  dead everywhere. A few have fled, but--"    The sudden ending of the dispatch was significant enough. Tomlinson  picked up another dispatch from Columbia, in the same State:    "Invisible Death now circling city," he read. "Business section  already invaded. All other telegraphists have left posts. Can't say  how long--"   
