wrecked beyond hope of early repair, yet luckily with no injury beyond  a few minor bruises. He rushed toward the hangar, to encounter a bevy  of scared mechanics.    "Another plane! Rev one up quick!" he shouted.    Planes were already being wheeled out, pilots in flying suits and  goggles were striding beside them. Dick ordered one of them away,  stepped into his plane, and in a moment was in the air again.    In the minute or two that had elapsed since the encounter, the enemy  had been active. Crash after crash was resounding from various parts  of Washington. Buildings were rocking and toppling, débris strewed the  streets, fires were springing up everywhere. A thousand feet aloft,  Dick could see the holocaust of destruction that was being wrought by  the infernal missiles.    Bombs of such power had been the unattained ambition of every  government of the world--and it had been left to the men of the  Invisible Emperor to attain to them. Whole streets went into ruin at  each discharge and from everywhere within the city the wailing cry of  the injured went up, in a resonant moan of pain.    In the central part of the city, the district about F Street and the  government buildings, nothing was standing, except those buildings  fashioned of structural steel, and these showed twisted girders like  the skeletons of primeval monsters, supporting sections of sagging  floors. Houses, hotels had melted into shapeless heaps of rubble,  which filled the streets to a depth of a dozen yards, burying  everything beneath them. Yet here and there could be seen the forms of  dead pedestrians, motor-cars emerging out of the débris, lying in  every conceivable position; horses, horribly mangled, were shrieking  as they tried to free themselves. And yet, despite this ruin, the  general impression upon Dick's mind, as he beat to and fro, signaling  to his flight to spread, was that of a vast, empty desolation.    *       *       *       *       *    Further away: where the ruin had not yet fallen, thousands of human 
