man who had been wearing it had sprung instantly into view beneath the  cluster of electric lights. He was a fair-haired young fellow of about  thirty years, his features white and set in the agony of death.    He was dressed in a trim uniform of black, with silver braid, and on  his shoulders were the insignia of a lieutenant. He opened his eyes,  blue as the skies, and stared about him. He seemed to understand what  had happened to him.    "Dogs!" he muttered.    Shrieks of fury answered him. The mob surged toward him as if to grind  his face to pieces under their feet--and then recoiled, mouthing and  gibbering. But it was at Dick that they were looking, not at the dying  man.    He raised himself upon one elbow with a mighty effort. "His Majesty  the Invisible Emperor! Long be his reign triumphant!" he chanted. It  was his last credo. The words broke from his lips accompanied by a  torrent of red foam. His head dropped back, his body slipped down; he  was gone. And no one seemed to observe his passing. They were all  screaming and gibbering at Dick.    "Rennell! Rennell!" yelled Stopford. "Where are you, Rennell? God,  man, what's happened to your legs?"    Dick looked down at himself. For a moment he had the illusion that he  was a head and a trunk, floating in the air. His lower limbs had  become invisible, except for patches of trousering that seemed to  drift through space. The mob in the room had fallen back gaping at him  in horror.    Then Dick understood. It was the invisible garment that had coiled  itself about him. He tore it from him and became visibly a man once  more.    Shouts from another room! A surging movement of the crowd toward it.  The muffled sounds of an automatic pistol, fitted with a silencer!  Then screams:    "The devils are in there! They're murdering the soldiers!"    There followed a panic-stricken rush, more muffled firing, and then  the sharp roar of rifles, and the fall of plaster. Some one was  bawling the President's name. The rooms became a mass of milling human 
