until more could diffuse in from the sides.    Dr. Shapley's suggestion, in any event, is not to search for heat but  for facts. Even in existing, relatively shallow mines, he believes,  scientific laboratories at different depths under the surface might  yield valuable data not now obtainable. Most scientific men will  agree. Revolutionary as the idea may seem to those familiar only with  the standardized laboratories of physics or chemistry, there are sound  reasons why a half-dozen or so of the sciences should do precisely  what Dr. Shapley suggests.    At least one underground laboratory has already been installed, for  Prof. E. B. Babcock of the University of California has such a  workroom in the Twin Peaks Tunnel, underneath the mountain that rises  above the city of San Francisco. Natural radioactivity in the rocks  thereabouts is greater than normal and Prof. Babcock finds that this  apparently increases new species among fruit flies.    To dig out laboratory rooms a mile or so down in existing deep mines  probably would cost far less than many enterprises already financed by  philanthropists. Even to deepen these shafts for several miles would  be much less difficult than most people imagine.    Increasing heat, if it is found that heat does increase, would not be  difficult to overcome had the engineers sufficient money. Ventilation  and transportation to and from the surface, while too costly for the  business enterprise of winning metals from very deep mines, probably  would present no serious difficulty were facts the chief object  instead of profit. The only question to be decided before intending  benefactors of science are urged to consider some such project is  whether or not the facts likely to be won promise enough value to  mankind.    An excellent case can be made out for answering yes. Dr. Shapley  mentioned four chief lines of investigation suitable for such  deep-mine laboratories: studies of gravity and of the variable length  of the day, researches on the various kinds of earthquake waves,  experiments on ether drift and tests of the biological effects of  cosmic rays and of the rays from radium.    Astronomical theories indicate that the day ought to be growing 
