 purple temporarily discarded for the gray, occasionally passed within a  stone's throw of the little shop, never suspecting the existence of such  a retreat amidst the dark shadows of the pillars. But to the initiated  few amongst the wearers of the gray, and to certain of the red police,  it was well known.    Rudolph Krassin, proprietor of the establishment, was a bent and  withered ancient. His jacket of gray denim hung loosely from his  spare frame and his hollow cough bespoke a deep-seated ailment.  Looking out from behind thick lenses set in his square-rimmed  spectacles, the watery eyes seemed vacant; uncomprehending. But old  Rudolph was a scholar--keen-witted--and a gentleman besides. To his  many friends of the gray-clad multitude he was an anomaly; they  could not understand his devotion to his well-thumbed volumes. But they  listened to his words of wisdom and, more frequently than they could  afford, parted with precious labor tickets in exchange for reading  matter that was usually of the lighter variety.    *       *       *       *       *    When the fighting started in the Square, Rudolph was watching and  listening from a point of vantage in the shadows near his shop. This  fellow Leontardo, who was the speaker, was an agitator of the worst  sort. His arguments always were calculated to arouse the passions of his  hearers; to inflame them against the wearers of the purple. He had  nothing constructive to offer. Always he spoke of destruction; war;  bloodshed. Rudolph marveled at the patience of the red police. To-day,  these newcomers, obviously a slumming party of youngsters bent on  whatever mischief they could find, were interfering with the speaker.  The old man chuckled at the first interruption. But at signs of real  trouble he scurried into the shadows and vanished in the blackness of  first-level passages known only to himself. He knew where to find the  automatic sub-station of the Power Syndicate.    Returning to the darkness he had created in the Square, he was relieved  to find that the sounds of the fighting had subsided. Apparently most of 
