sagging.    "Do you believe--really--he can strike him down--at his desk--from a  distance?"    "I know it." Delamater's fingers played for a moment with three bits  of metal in his pocket. Unconsciously he voiced his thoughts: "Does  the President have nails in his shoes, I wonder?"    "What--what's that?" the Chief demanded.    But Delamater made no reply. He was picturing the President. He would  be seated at his desk, waiting, waiting ... and the bells would be  ringing and whistles blowing from distant shops when the bolt would  strike.... It would flash from his feet ... through the thick rug ...  through the rug.... It would have to ground.    He paid no heed to his Chief's repeated question. He was seeing, not  the rug in the Presidential office, but below it--underneath it--a  heavy pad of rubber.    "If he can be insulated--" he said aloud, and stared unseeingly at his  eagerly listening superiors--"even the telephone cut--no possible  connection with the ground--"    "For God's sake, Del, if you've got an idea--any hope at all! I'm--I'm  up against it, Del."    The operative brought his distant gaze back to the room and the man  across from him. "Yes," he said slowly, thoughtfully, "I've got the  beginning of an idea; I don't see the end of it yet.    "We can cut him off from the ground--the President, I mean--make an  insulated island where he sits. But this devil will get him the  instant he leaves ... unless ... unless...."    "Yes--yes?" The Chief's voice was high-pitched with anxious  impatience; for the first time he was admitting to himself his  complete helplessness in this emergency.    "Unless," said Delamater, as the idea grew and took shape, "unless  that wireless channel works both ways. If it does ... if it does...."    The big man made a gesture of complete incomprehension.    "Wait!" said Robert Delamater, sharply. If ever his sleepy indolence  had misled his Chief, there was none to do so now in the voice that  rang like cold steel. His eyes were slits under the deep-drawn brows,  and his mouth was one straight line. 
