Dear Editor:    You'll excuse my writing, for it is the end of vacation.    I like your book very much, which many other readers approve of. Some  dislikes, of course, everyone has, and I have three which many readers  have, too. First, I wish the magazine were bigger and the paper  better. Second, have more stories and raise the price to 25c. Third,  have stories of the future such as "Earth, the Marauder," and stories  of lost Atlantis, the fourth dimension, other planets, atoms and  electrons.--Jack Farber, Payette, Idaho.    P. S. I am 11 years old and interested in science.      _Doesn't Like Serials_    Dear Editor:    I am a recent reader of the Astounding Stories magazine. I am going to  keep getting the magazine, as I like it very much.    I did not like "Murder Madness," or Burks' "Earth, the Marauder" very  much. I do not think "Murder Madness" is the type of story that  belongs in this magazine. I do not like continued stories very much as  I hate to break off at an interesting point and wait a whole month  before I can read the next installment or conclusion of the story. The  front piece of the magazine is very good, and except for the  criticisms mentioned above the magazine is excellent.--Kempt Mitchell.      _A Staunch Defender_    Dear Editor:    At one time a friend introduced your excellent little publication to  me. I read it and enjoyed every paragraph of it. This issue starred  "The Monsters of Moyen," which I consider a real super-science story.  I have followed "The Readers' Corner" quite a time.    In the September issue I saw where someone made a commentary on the  magazine. One of the things they said was that the paper should be of  a better grade. It is true that this would help, but "our" magazine is  not half full of advertisements to pay for this expense. Dear friends,  this is no Saturday Evening Post. Don't ask too much. Then, you may  take in consideration that other magazines of Science Fiction have no  better grade of paper than this, for I have purchased several. 
