  They could not go around it. The ledge was only a few feet wide, and  blocked at each side.    "Got to cross!" Phil said tersely.    Quade, sickly-faced, stared down. "There--there might be other things  in that water!" he gasped. "Monsters!"    "Sure," agreed Phil contemptuously. "You'd better stay here." He  turned to the others. "I'll see how deep it is," he said, and without  the faintest hesitation dove flatly in.    Oily ripples washed back, and they saw his head poke through,  sputtering. "Not deep," he said. "Chest-high. Come on."    He reached for Sue, helped her down, and did the same for her father.  Holding each by the hand, Sue's head barely above the water, he  started across. They had not gone more than twenty feet when they  heard Quade, left on the bank, give a hoarse yell of fear and dive  into the water. Their dread pursuer had caught up with them.    And it followed--on the water! Phil had hoped it would not be able to  cross, but once more the thing's astounding adaptability dashed his  hopes. Without hesitation, the whitish jelly sprawled out over the  water, rolling after them with ghastly, snake-like ripples, its pallid  body standing out gruesomely against the black, odorous tide.    Quade came up thrashing madly, some feet to the side of the other  three. He was swimming--and swimming with such strength that he  quickly left them behind. He would be across before they; and that  meant there was a good chance that the earth-borer would go up again  with only one passenger....    Phil fought against the water, pulling Sue and her father forward as  best he could. From behind came the rippling sound of their shapeless  pursuer. "Ten feet more--" Holmes began--then abruptly stopped.    There had been a swish, a ripple upstream. And as their heads turned  they saw the water part and a black head, long, evil, glistening,  pointing coldly down to where they were struggling towards the shore.  Phil Holmes felt his strength ooze out. He heard Professor Guinness  gasp:    "A water-snake!"    *       *       *       *       * 
