charges of yours a year ago?" he said. "Have you forgotten the  disgrace to me that followed?--the stigma that forced me to disappear  for months? You fool, do you think I've forgotten?--or that I'd let  you--"    "Quade," interrupted the older man, "you know very well you were  guilty. I caught you red-handed. You didn't fool anyone--except the  jury that let you go. So save your breath, and, if you've the sense  you were born with, release my daughter and me. Why, you're crazy!" he  cried with mounting anger. "You can't get away with this! I'll have  you in jail within forty-eight hours, once I get back to the surface!"    With an effort Quade controlled his feelings and assumed his oily,  sarcastic manner. "That's just it," he said: "'once you get back!' How  stupid you are! You don't seem to realize that you're not going back  to the surface. You and your daughter."    Sue gasped, and her father's eyes went wide. There was a tense  silence.    "You wouldn't dare!" the inventor cried finally. "You wouldn't dare!"    "It's rather large, this cavern," Quade went on. "You'll have plenty  of room. Perhaps I'll untie you before I go back up, so--"    "You can't get away with it!" shouted the old man, tremendously  excited. "Why, you can't, possibly! Philip Holmes'll track you  down--he'll tell the police--he'll rescue us! And then--"    Quade smiled suavely. "Oh, no, he won't. Perhaps you remember the shot  that sounded from the water-hole? Well, when I and my assistant, Juan,  heard Holmes say he was going for water, I told Juan to follow him to  the water-hole and bind him, to keep him from interfering till I got  back up. But Mr. Holmes is evidently of an impulsive disposition, and  must have caused trouble. Juan, too, is impulsive; he is a Mexican.  And he had a gun. I'm afraid he was forced to use it.... I am quite  sure Philip Holmes will not, as you say, track me down."    David Guinness looked at his daughter's white face and horror-filled  eyes and suddenly crumpled. Humbly, passionately, he begged Quade to  take her back up. "Why, she's never done anything to you, Quade!" he 
