scroll of Time--forever. The birth of a star, its lifetime, its death;  your birth, and mine; your death, and mine--all are there. Unchanging.    Once you have that fundamental conception, there can be no confusion  in the rest. We feel, because we move along the scroll of Time for the  little journey of our life, that Time moves; but it does not. We say,  The past did exist; the future will exist. The past is gone and the  future has not yet come. But that is fatuous and absurd. It is merely  our _consciousness_ which travels from one successive event to  another.    Why and how we move along the scroll of Time, is scientifically simple  to grasp. Conceive, for instance, an infinitely long motion picture  film. Each of its tiny pictures is a little different from the other.  Casting your viewpoint--your consciousness--successively along the  film, gives _motion_.    The same is true of the Eternal Time-scroll. Motion is merely a  _change_. There is no absolute motion, but only the comparison of two  things relatively slightly different. We are conscious of one state of  affairs--and then of another state, by comparison slightly different.    *       *       *       *       *    As early as 1930, they were groping for this. They called it the  Theory of Intermittent Existence--the Quantum Theory--by which they  explained that nothing has any Absolute Duration. You, for instance,  as you read this, exist instantaneously; you are non-existent; and you  exist again, just a little changed from before. Thus you pass, not  with a flow of persisting existence, but by a series of little jerks.  There is, then, like the illusion of a motion picture film, only a  pseudo-movement. A change, from one existence to the next.    And all this, with infinite care, the Creator engraved upon the scroll  of Time. Our series of little pictures are there--yours and mine.    But why, and how, scientifically do we progress along the Time-scroll?  Why? In 2930, they told me that the gentle Creator gave each of us a 
