"I won't!" said Junior reflexively and backpaddled into the coral  shadows of the reef.    "That wallop," seethed Pater, "wants a good polyping. I mean...." He  glowered suspiciously at Mater and the neighbors.    "Dear," soothed Mater, "didn't you _notice_?"    "Of course, I.... Notice what?"    "What Junior was doing ... carrying a stone. I don't suppose he  understands _why_, just yet, but...."    "A stone? Ah, uh, to be sure, a stone. Why, my dear, do you realize  what this _means_?"    *       *       *       *       *    Pater was once more occupied with improving Mater's mind. It was a long  job, without foreseeable end--especially since he and his helpmeet were  both firmly rooted for life to the same tastefully decorated homesite  (garnished by Pater himself with colored pebbles, shells, urchins and  bits of coral in the rather rococo style which had prevailed during  Pater's courting days as a free-swimming polyp).    "Intelligence, my dear," pronounced Pater, "is quite incompatible with  motility. Just think--how could ideas congeal in a brain shuttled  hither and yon, bombarded with ever-changing sense-impressions? Look  at the lower species, which swim about all their lives, incapable of  taking root or thought! True Intelligence, my dear--as distinguished  from Instinct, of course--pre-supposes the fixed viewpoint!" He paused.    Mater murmured, "Yes, dear," as she always did obediently at this point.    Junior undulated past, swimming toward the abyss. He moved a bit  heavily now; it was growing hard for him to keep his maturely  thickening afterbody in a horizontal posture.    "Just look at the young of our own kind," said Pater. "Scatter-brained  larvae, wandering greedily about in search of new stimuli. But, praise  be, they mature at last into sensible sessile adults. While yet the  unformed intellect rebels against the ending of care-free polyphood,  Instinct, the wisdom of Nature, instructs them to prepare for the great  change!"    He nodded wisely as Junior came gliding back out of the gloom of deep 
