Junior undulated past, swimming toward the abyss. He moved a bit  heavily now; it was growing hard for him to keep his maturely  thickening afterbody in a horizontal posture.    "Just look at the young of our own kind," said Pater. "Scatter-brained  larvae, wandering greedily about in search of new stimuli. But, praise  be, they mature at last into sensible sessile adults. While yet the  unformed intellect rebels against the ending of care-free polyphood,  Instinct, the wisdom of Nature, instructs them to prepare for the great  change!"    He nodded wisely as Junior came gliding back out of the gloom of deep  water. Junior's tentacles clutched an irregular basalt fragment which  he must have picked up down the rubble-strewn slope. As he paddled  slowly along the rim of the reef, the adult anthozoans located directly  below looked up and hissed irritable warnings.    He was swimming a bit more easily now and, if Pater had not been a  firm believer in Instinct, he might have been reminded of the grossly  materialistic theory, propounded by some iconoclast, according to which  a maturing polyp's tendency to grapple objects was merely a matter of  taking on ballast.    "See!" declared Pater triumphantly. "I don't suppose he understands  _why_, just yet ... but Instinct urges him infallibly to assemble the  materials for his future homesite."    *       *       *       *       *    Junior let the rock fragment fall, and began plucking restlessly at a  coral outcropping.    "Dear," said Mater, "don't you think you ought to tell him...?"    "Ahem!" said Pater. "The wisdom of Instinct--"    "As you've always said, a polyp needs a parent's guidance," remarked  Mater.    "_Ahem!_" repeated Pater. He straightened his stalk, and bellowed  authoritatively, "JUNIOR! Come here!"    The prodigal polyp swam warily close. "Yes, Pater?"    "Junior," said his parent solemnly, "now that you are about to grow  down, it behooves you to know certain facts."    Mater blushed a delicate lavender and turned away on her side of the 
