  "Hi, folks!" piped Junior from overhead.    His parents swiveled as if on a single stalk. Their offspring was  floating a few fathoms above them, paddling lazily against the ebb;  plainly he had just swum from some crevice in the reef nearby. In one  pair of dangling tentacles he absently hugged a roundish stone, worn  sensuously smooth by pounding surf.    "WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN?"    "Nowhere," said Junior innocently. "Just playing hide-and-go-sink with  the squids."    "With the other polyps," Mater corrected him primly. She detested slang.    Pater was eyeing Junior with ominous calm. "And where," he asked, "did  you get that stone?"    Junior contracted guiltily. The surfstone slipped from his tentacles  and plumped to the sea-floor in a flurry of sand. He edged away,  stammering, "Well, I guess maybe ... I might have gone a little ways  toward the beach...."    "You guess! When I was a polyp," said Pater, "the small fry obeyed  their elders, and no guess about it!"    "Now, dear--" said Mater.    "And no spawn of mine," Pater warmed to his lecture, "is going to flout  my words! Junior--COME HERE!"    Junior paddled cautiously around the homesite, just out of  tentacle-reach. He said in a small voice, "I won't."    "DID YOU HEAR ME?"    "Yes," admitted Junior.    The neighbors stared. The three maiden aunts clutched one another with  muted shrieks, savoring beforehand the language Pater would now use.    But Pater said "Ulp!"--no more.    "Now, dear," put in Mater quickly. "We must be patient. You know all  children go through larval stages."    "When I was a polyp ..." Pater began rustily. He coughed out an  accidentally inhaled crustacean, and started over: "No spawn of  mine...." Trailing off, he only glared, then roared abruptly, "SPRAT!"    "I won't!" said Junior reflexively and backpaddled into the coral  shadows of the reef.    "That wallop," seethed Pater, "wants a good polyping. I mean...." He  glowered suspiciously at Mater and the neighbors.    "Dear," soothed Mater, "didn't you _notice_?"    "Of course, I.... Notice what?" 
