debris to a spot downslope, and there laboring over what promised to  be a fairly ambitious cairn. Judging by what they could see of it,  his homesite might even prove a credit to the colony (so went Pater's  thoughts) and attract a mate who would be a good catch (thus Mater  mused).    Junior was still to be seen at times along the reef in company with  his free-swimming friends among the other polyps, at some of whom  his parents had always looked askance, fearing they were by no means  well-bred. In fact, there was strong suspicion that some of them--waifs  from the disreputable Shallows district in the hazardous reaches just  below the tide-mark--had never been bred at all, but were products of  budding, a practice frowned on in polite society.    However, Junior's appearance and rate of locomotion made it clear  he would soon be done with juvenile follies. As Pater repeated with  satisfaction--you can't beat Biology; as one becomes more and more  bottle-shaped, the romantic illusions of youth must inevitably perish.    "I always knew there was sound stuff in the youngster," declared Pater  expansively.    "At least he won't be able to go around with those ragamuffins much  longer," breathed Mater thankfully.    "What does the young fool think he's doing, fiddling round with  soapstone?" grumbled Pater, peering critically through the green to try  to make out the details of Junior's building. "Doesn't he know it's apt  to slip its place in a year or two?"    "Look, dear," hissed Mater acidly, "isn't that the little polyp who was  so rude once?... I wish she wouldn't keep watching Junior like that.  Our northwest neighbor heard _positively_ that she's the child of an  only parent!"    "Never mind." Pater turned to reassure her. "Once Junior is properly  rooted, his self-respect will cause him to keep riffraff at a distance.  It's a matter of Psychology, my dear; the vertical position makes all  the difference in one's thinking."    *       *       *       *       * 
