water-fleas.    "No doubt," said Pater, "in the course of your harum-scarum  adventurings as a normal polyp among polyps, you've noticed the ways  in which the lower orders reproduce themselves; the activities of the  fishes, the crustacea, the marine worms will not have escaped your  attention."    "Uh-huh," said Junior, treading water.    *       *       *       *       *    "You will have observed that among these there takes place a good  deal of ... ah ... maneuvering for position. But among intelligent,  firmly rooted beings like ourselves, matters are, of course, on a less  crude and direct plane. What among lesser creatures is a question of  tactics belongs, for us, to the realm of strategy." Pater's tone  grew confiding. "Now, Junior, once you're settled you'll realize the  importance of being easy in your mind about your offspring's parentage.  Remember, a niche in brine saves trying. Nothing like choosing your  location well in the first place. Study the currents around your  prospective site--particularly their direction and force at such  crucial times as flood-tide. Try to make sure you and your future mate  won't be too close down-current from anybody else's site, since in a  case like that accidents can happen. You understand, Junior?"    "Uh-huh," acknowledged Junior. "That's what the fellows mean when they  say don't let anybody get the drop on you."    "Well!" said Pater in flat disapproval.    "But it all seems sort of silly," said Junior stubbornly. "_I'd_ rather  just keep moving around, and not have to do all that figuring. And the  ocean's full of things I haven't seen yet. I don't _want_ to grow down!"    Mater paled with shock. Pater gave his spawn a scalding, scandalized  look. "You'll learn! You can't beat Biology," he said thickly,  creditably keeping his voice down. "Junior, you may go!"    Junior bobbled off, and Pater admonished Mater sternly, "We must have  patience, my dear! All children pass through these larval stages...."    "Yes, dear," sighed Mater. 
