bottle-shaped, the romantic illusions of youth must inevitably perish.    "I always knew there was sound stuff in the youngster," declared Pater  expansively.    "At least he won't be able to go around with those ragamuffins much  longer," breathed Mater thankfully.    "What does the young fool think he's doing, fiddling round with  soapstone?" grumbled Pater, peering critically through the green to try  to make out the details of Junior's building. "Doesn't he know it's apt  to slip its place in a year or two?"    "Look, dear," hissed Mater acidly, "isn't that the little polyp who was  so rude once?... I wish she wouldn't keep watching Junior like that.  Our northwest neighbor heard _positively_ that she's the child of an  only parent!"    "Never mind." Pater turned to reassure her. "Once Junior is properly  rooted, his self-respect will cause him to keep riffraff at a distance.  It's a matter of Psychology, my dear; the vertical position makes all  the difference in one's thinking."    *       *       *       *       *    The great day arrived. Laboriously Junior put a few finishing  touches to his construction--which, so far as could be seen from a  distance, had turned out decent-looking enough, though it was rather  questionably original in design: lower and flatter than was customary.    With one more look at his handiwork, Junior turned bottom-end-down  and sank wearily onto the finished site. After a minute, he paddled  experimentally, but flailing tentacles failed to lift him. He was  already rooted, and growing more solidly so by the moment.    "Congratulations!" cried the neighbors. Pater and Mater bowed this way  and that in acknowledgment. Mater waved a condescending tentacle to the  three maiden aunts.    "I told you so!" said Pater triumphantly.    "Yes, dear...." said Mater meekly.    Suddenly there were outcries of alarm from the dwellers down-reef. A  wave of dismay swept audibly through all the nearer part of the colony.  Pater and Mater looked around, and froze. 
