urge ... to sink to the bottom, to take root there in some sheltered  location which will be your lifetime site. Perhaps you even have an  understanding already with some ... ah ... charming young polyp of the  opposite gender, whom you would invite to share your homesite. Or, if  not, you should take all the more pains to make that site as attractive  as possible, in order that such a one may decide to grace it with--"    "Uh-huh," said Junior understandingly. "That's what the fellows mean  when they say any of 'em'll fall for a few high-class rocks."    Pater marshaled his thoughts again. "Well, quite apart from such  material considerations as selecting the right rocks, there are  certain ... ah ... matters we do not ordinarily discuss."    Mater blushed a more pronounced lavender. The three maiden aunts,  rooted to their boulder within easy earshot of Pater's carrying voice,  put up a respectable pretense of searching one another for nonexistent  water-fleas.    "No doubt," said Pater, "in the course of your harum-scarum  adventurings as a normal polyp among polyps, you've noticed the ways  in which the lower orders reproduce themselves; the activities of the  fishes, the crustacea, the marine worms will not have escaped your  attention."    "Uh-huh," said Junior, treading water.    *       *       *       *       *    "You will have observed that among these there takes place a good  deal of ... ah ... maneuvering for position. But among intelligent,  firmly rooted beings like ourselves, matters are, of course, on a less  crude and direct plane. What among lesser creatures is a question of  tactics belongs, for us, to the realm of strategy." Pater's tone  grew confiding. "Now, Junior, once you're settled you'll realize the  importance of being easy in your mind about your offspring's parentage.  Remember, a niche in brine saves trying. Nothing like choosing your  location well in the first place. Study the currents around your  prospective site--particularly their direction and force at such 
