  He was reviving now, and raised himself on one arm. I pushed myself off  the bed, and stepped quickly to my table to procure something with which  I could control him. Not that he could get away, but he was so tiny I  thought I might lose sight of him.    Pen, pencil, paper, stamps, scissors, clips--none of them were what I  wanted. I had nothing definite in mind, but then remembered my stamp  outfit and rushed to secure it. Evidently college work had cramped my  style along the collecting line, for the tweezers and magnifier appeared  with a mild coating of dust. But they were what I needed, and I blew on  them and returned to the bed.    The little man had made his way half an inch or so from his former  prison; was crawling over what I suppose were, to him, great uneven  blocks of red and green and black moss.    He crossed from a red into a black patch as I watched his movements  through the glass, and I could see him more plainly against the darker  background. He stopped and picked at the substance of his strange  surroundings, then straightened to examine a tuft of the cloth. The  magnifier enlarged him to a seeming half inch or so, and I could see  better, now, this strange tiny creature.    It _was_ a metal cap he wore, and it did have protruding knobs--two of  them--slanting at 45 degree angles from his temples like horns. I  wondered at their use, but it was impossible for me to imagine. Perhaps  they covered some actual growth; he might have had real horns for all I  knew. Nothing would have been too strange to expect.    His clothing showed up as a simple, white, one piece garment, like a  shirt and gym shorts. The shorts ended at the knee, and from there down  he was bare except for a covering on his feet which appeared more like  gloves than shoes. Whatever he wore to protect his feet, it allowed free  movement of his toes.    It struck me that this little man's native habitat must have been very  warm. His attire suggested this. For a moment I considered plugging in 
