him visible against the brown grain of the shellacked wood. I watched,  amazed as his microscopic figure moved over perhaps half an inch.    He wore a blouse and shorts, it seemed, and sandals. Something might  have been hanging at his side, but it was too small for me to make out  plainly. His head, I thought was silver-coloured, and I think the  headgear had some sort of knobs on it. All this, of course, I didn't  catch at the time, because my heart was hammering away excitedly and  making my fingers shake as I fumbled for a matchbox in my pocket, I  pushed it open and let the matches scatter out. Then, as gently as my  excitement would allow, I pushed the tiny man from the ledge into the  box; for I had suddenly realized the greatness of this amazing  discovery.    The car was barely half-filled and no attention had been directed my  way. I slid quickly out of the empty seat and hurriedly alighted at the  next stop.    In a daze, I stood where I had alighted waiting for the next No. 10 that  would return me home, the matchbox held tightly in my hand. They'd put  that box in a museum one day!    [Illustration]    I collect stamps--I've heard about getting rare ones with inverted  centers, or some minor deviation that made them immensely valuable. I'd  imagined getting one by mistake sometime that would make me rich. But  this! They'd billed "King Kong" as "The Eighth Wonder of the World," but  that was only imaginary--a film ... a terrifying thought crossed my  mind. I pushed open the box hastily: maybe _I_ had been dreaming. But  there it was--the unbelievable; the Little Man!    A car was before me, just leaving. Its polished surface had not  reflected through the haze, and the new design made so little noise that  I hadn't seen it. I jumped for it, my mind in such a turmoil that the  conductor had to ask three times for my fare. Ordinarily, I would have  been embarrassed, but a young man with his mind on millions doesn't  worry about little things like that. At least, not this young man. 
