In a world deep down in Smallness, in an electron of a dead cell of a  piece of wood, five scientists were grouped before a complicated  instrument with a horn like the early radios. Two sat and three stood,  but their attention upon the apparatus was unanimous. From small  hollowed cups worn on their fingers like rings, came a smoke from  burning incense. These cups they held to their noses frequently, and  their eyes shone as they inhaled. The scientists of infra-smallness were  smoking!    With the exception of a recent prolonged silence, which was causing them  great anxiety, sounds had been issuing from the instrument for days.  There had been breaks before, but this silence had been long-enduring.    Now the voice was speaking again; a voice that was a telepathic  communication made audible. The scientists brightened.    "There is much that I cannot understand," it said. The words were  hesitant, filled with awe. "I seem to have been in many worlds. At the  completion of my experiment, I stood on a land which was brown and black  and very rough of surface. With startling suddenness, I was propelled  across this harsh country, and, terrifyingly, I was falling. I must have  dropped seventy-five feet, but the strange buoyant atmosphere of this  strange world saved me from harm.    "My new surroundings were grey and gloomy, and the earth trembled as a  giant cloud passed over the sky. I do not know what it meant, but with  the suddenness characteristic of this place, it became very dark, and an  inexplicable violence shook me into insensibility.    "I am conscious, now, of some giant form before me, but it is so  colossal that my eyes cannot focus it. And it changes. Now I seem  confronted by great orange mountains with curving ledges cut into their  sides. Atop them are great, greyish slabs of protecting opaque rock--a  covering like that above our Temples of Aerat--'on which the rain may  never fall.' I wish that you might communicate with me, good men of my  world. How go the Gods?    "But now! These mountains are lifting, vanishing from my sight. A great  _thing_ which I cannot comprehend hovers before me. It has many colors, 
