 The car was barely half-filled and no attention had been directed my  way. I slid quickly out of the empty seat and hurriedly alighted at the  next stop.    In a daze, I stood where I had alighted waiting for the next No. 10 that  would return me home, the matchbox held tightly in my hand. They'd put  that box in a museum one day!    [Illustration]    I collect stamps--I've heard about getting rare ones with inverted  centers, or some minor deviation that made them immensely valuable. I'd  imagined getting one by mistake sometime that would make me rich. But  this! They'd billed "King Kong" as "The Eighth Wonder of the World," but  that was only imaginary--a film ... a terrifying thought crossed my  mind. I pushed open the box hastily: maybe _I_ had been dreaming. But  there it was--the unbelievable; the Little Man!    A car was before me, just leaving. Its polished surface had not  reflected through the haze, and the new design made so little noise that  I hadn't seen it. I jumped for it, my mind in such a turmoil that the  conductor had to ask three times for my fare. Ordinarily, I would have  been embarrassed, but a young man with his mind on millions doesn't  worry about little things like that. At least, not this young man.    How I acted on the streetcar, or traversed the five blocks from the end  of the line, I couldn't say. If I may imagine myself, though, I must  have strode along the street like a determined machine. I reached the  house and let myself into the basement room. Inside, I pulled the shades  together and closed the door, the matchbox still in my hand. No one was  at home this time of day, which pleased me particularly, for I wanted to  figure out how I was going to present this wonder to the world.    I flung myself down on the bed and opened the matchbox. The little man  lay very still on the bottom.    "Little Man!" I cried, and turned him out on the quilt. Maybe he had  suffocated in the box. Irrational thought! Small though it might be to 
