 communication made audible. The scientists brightened.    "There is much that I cannot understand," it said. The words were  hesitant, filled with awe. "I seem to have been in many worlds. At the  completion of my experiment, I stood on a land which was brown and black  and very rough of surface. With startling suddenness, I was propelled  across this harsh country, and, terrifyingly, I was falling. I must have  dropped seventy-five feet, but the strange buoyant atmosphere of this  strange world saved me from harm.    "My new surroundings were grey and gloomy, and the earth trembled as a  giant cloud passed over the sky. I do not know what it meant, but with  the suddenness characteristic of this place, it became very dark, and an  inexplicable violence shook me into insensibility.    "I am conscious, now, of some giant form before me, but it is so  colossal that my eyes cannot focus it. And it changes. Now I seem  confronted by great orange mountains with curving ledges cut into their  sides. Atop them are great, greyish slabs of protecting opaque rock--a  covering like that above our Temples of Aerat--'on which the rain may  never fall.' I wish that you might communicate with me, good men of my  world. How go the Gods?    "But now! These mountains are lifting, vanishing from my sight. A great  _thing_ which I cannot comprehend hovers before me. It has many colors,  but mostly there is the orange of the mountains. It hangs in the air,  and from the portion nearest me grow dark trees as round as myself and  as tall. There is a great redness above, that opens like the Katus  flower, exposing the ivory white from which puffs the Tongue of Death.  Beyond this I cannot see well, but ever so high are two gigantic caverns  from which the Winds of the Legends blow--and suck. As dangerous as the  Katus, by Dal! Alternately they crush me to the ground, then threaten to  tear me from it and hurl me away."    _My nose was the cavern from which issued the horrifying wind. I noticed  that my breath distressed the little man as I leaned over to stare at 
