Fame ... pictures ... speeches ... movies ... money.... But here I was  at my desk, and I grabbed for a piece of typing paper. They'd put that  in a museum, too!    The stamp and the little man lay just at the edge of the sheet, and he  clutched at a "great orange mountain" covered by a "vast slab of  curving, opaque glass" like the "Temples of Aerat." It was my thumb, but  I did not see him there.    _I thrust the paper into the typewriter and twirled it through._    "I have fallen from the mountain, and hang perpendicularly, perilously,  on a limitless white plain. I tremble, on the verge of falling, but the  slime from the marsh holds me fast."    _I struck the first key._    "A metal meteor is roaring down upon me. Or is it something I have never  before witnessed? It has a tail that streams off beyond sight. It comes  at terrific speed.    "I know. The Gods are angry with me for leaving Mortia land. Yes! 'Tis  only They who kill by iron. Their hands clutch the rod in mighty tower  Baviat, and thrust it here to stamp me out."    And a shaking little figure cried: "Baviat tertia!... Mortia mea...." as  the Gods struck wrathfully at a small one daring to explore their  domain. For little man Jeko had contrived to see Infinity--and Infinity  was only for the eyes of the Immortals, and those of the Experience who  dwelt there by the Gods' grace. He had intruded into the realm of the  rulers, the world of the After Life and the Gods Omnipotent!    A mortal--in the land of All!    In a world deep down in Smallness, in an electron of a cell of dead  wood, five scientists were grouped before the complicated instrument so  reminiscent of early radios. But now they all were standing. Strained,  perspiring, frightened, they trembled, aghast at the dimensions the  experiment had assumed; they were paralysed with terror and awe as they  heard of the wrath of the affronted Gods. And the spirit of science  froze within them, and would die in Mortia land. "Seek the skies only by 
