 as tall. There is a great redness above, that opens like the Katus  flower, exposing the ivory white from which puffs the Tongue of Death.  Beyond this I cannot see well, but ever so high are two gigantic caverns  from which the Winds of the Legends blow--and suck. As dangerous as the  Katus, by Dal! Alternately they crush me to the ground, then threaten to  tear me from it and hurl me away."    _My nose was the cavern from which issued the horrifying wind. I noticed  that my breath distressed the little man as I leaned over to stare at  him, so drew back._    _Upstairs, the visor buzzed. Before answering, so that I would not lose  the little man, I very gingerly pinched his shirt with the tongs, and  lifted him to the table._    "My breath! I am shot into the heavens like Milo and his rocket! I  traverse a frightful distance! Everything changes constantly. A million  miles below is chaos. This world is mad! A giant landscape passes  beneath me, so weird I cannot describe it. I--I cannot understand. Only  my heart trembles within me. Neither Science nor the gods can help or  comfort in this awful world of Greatness!    "We stop. I hang motionless in the air. The ground beneath is utterly  insane. But I see vast uncovered veins of rare metal--and crystal,  precious crystal, enough to cover the mightiest Temple we could build!  Oh, that Mortia were so blessed! In all this terrifying world, the  richness of the crystal and the marvelous metal do redeem.    "Men!----I see ... I believe it is a temple! It is incredibly tall, of  black foundation and red spire, but it is weathered, leaning as if to  fall--and very bare. The people cannot love their Gods as we--or else  there is the Hunger.... But the gods may enlighten this world, too, and  if lowered, I will make for it. A sacred Temple should be a  haven--friends! I descend."    _The little man's eye had caught my scissors and a glass ruler as I  suspended him above my desk. They were his exposed vein of metal and the  precious crystal. I was searching for something to secure him. In the 
