   _I struck the first key._    "A metal meteor is roaring down upon me. Or is it something I have never  before witnessed? It has a tail that streams off beyond sight. It comes  at terrific speed.    "I know. The Gods are angry with me for leaving Mortia land. Yes! 'Tis  only They who kill by iron. Their hands clutch the rod in mighty tower  Baviat, and thrust it here to stamp me out."    And a shaking little figure cried: "Baviat tertia!... Mortia mea...." as  the Gods struck wrathfully at a small one daring to explore their  domain. For little man Jeko had contrived to see Infinity--and Infinity  was only for the eyes of the Immortals, and those of the Experience who  dwelt there by the Gods' grace. He had intruded into the realm of the  rulers, the world of the After Life and the Gods Omnipotent!    A mortal--in the land of All!    In a world deep down in Smallness, in an electron of a cell of dead  wood, five scientists were grouped before the complicated instrument so  reminiscent of early radios. But now they all were standing. Strained,  perspiring, frightened, they trembled, aghast at the dimensions the  experiment had assumed; they were paralysed with terror and awe as they  heard of the wrath of the affronted Gods. And the spirit of science  froze within them, and would die in Mortia land. "Seek the skies only by  hallowed Death" was what they knew. And they destroyed the machine of  the man who had found Venquil land--and thought to live--and fled as  Jeko's last thoughts came through.    For many years five frightened little men of an electron world would  live in deadly fear for their lives, and for their souls after death;  and would pray, and become great disciples, spreading the gospels of the  Gods. True, Jeko had described a monstrous world; but how could a mere  mortal experience its true meaning? It was really ethereal and  beautiful, was Venquil land, and they would spend the rest of their days  insuring themselves for the day of the experience--when they would  assume their comforted place in the world of the After Life. 
