inexplicable violence shook me into insensibility.    "I am conscious, now, of some giant form before me, but it is so  colossal that my eyes cannot focus it. And it changes. Now I seem  confronted by great orange mountains with curving ledges cut into their  sides. Atop them are great, greyish slabs of protecting opaque rock--a  covering like that above our Temples of Aerat--'on which the rain may  never fall.' I wish that you might communicate with me, good men of my  world. How go the Gods?    "But now! These mountains are lifting, vanishing from my sight. A great  _thing_ which I cannot comprehend hovers before me. It has many colors,  but mostly there is the orange of the mountains. It hangs in the air,  and from the portion nearest me grow dark trees as round as myself and  as tall. There is a great redness above, that opens like the Katus  flower, exposing the ivory white from which puffs the Tongue of Death.  Beyond this I cannot see well, but ever so high are two gigantic caverns  from which the Winds of the Legends blow--and suck. As dangerous as the  Katus, by Dal! Alternately they crush me to the ground, then threaten to  tear me from it and hurl me away."    _My nose was the cavern from which issued the horrifying wind. I noticed  that my breath distressed the little man as I leaned over to stare at  him, so drew back._    _Upstairs, the visor buzzed. Before answering, so that I would not lose  the little man, I very gingerly pinched his shirt with the tongs, and  lifted him to the table._    "My breath! I am shot into the heavens like Milo and his rocket! I  traverse a frightful distance! Everything changes constantly. A million  miles below is chaos. This world is mad! A giant landscape passes  beneath me, so weird I cannot describe it. I--I cannot understand. Only  my heart trembles within me. Neither Science nor the gods can help or  comfort in this awful world of Greatness!    "We stop. I hang motionless in the air. The ground beneath is utterly  insane. But I see vast uncovered veins of rare metal--and crystal, 
