him against the rail. For a moment, squashed to the wire, he stared a  hundred feet down at the river of automobiles. _Phobos!_ he thought  wildly. _If the barrier gives, I'll be sliced in two by a dorsal fin  before I hit the pavement!_    The August twilight wrapped him in heat and stickiness. He could see  neither stars nor even moon through the city's blaze. The forest of  multi-colored towers, cataracting half a mile skyward across more  acreage than his eyes reached, was impressive and all that, but--he  used to stroll out in the rock garden behind his cottage and smoke a  pipe in company with Orion. On summer evenings, that is, when the  temperature wasn't too far below zero.    _Why did they tap me for this job?_ he asked himself in a surge of  homesickness. _What the hell is the Martian Embassy here for?_    He, Peter Matheny, was no more than a peaceful professor of  sociodynamics at Devil's Kettle University. Of course, he had advised  his government before now--in fact, the Red Ankh Society had been his  idea--but still he was at ease only with his books and his chess and  his mineral collection, a faculty poker party on Tenthday night and an  occasional trip to Swindletown--    _My God_, thought Matheny, _here I am, one solitary outlander in the  greatest commercial empire the human race has ever seen, and I'm  supposed to find my planet a con man!_    He began walking, disconsolately, at random. His lizardskin shirt and  black culottes drew glances, but derisive ones: their cut was forty  years out of date. He should find himself a hotel, he thought drearily,  but he wasn't tired; the spaceport would pneumo his baggage to him  whenever he did check in. The few Martians who had been to Earth had  gone into ecstasies over the automation which put any service you could  name on a twenty-four-hour basis. But it would be a long time before  Mars had such machines. If ever.    The city roared at him.    He fumbled after his pipe. _Of course_, he told himself, _that's why  the Embassy can't act. I may find it advisable to go outside the law. 
