 "Well, we do sell a lot of color slides, postcards, baggage labels and  so on to people who like to act cosmopolitan, and I understand our  travel posters are quite popular as wall decoration. But all that has  to be printed on Earth, and the printer and distributor keep most of  the money. We've sold some books and show tapes, of course, but only  one has been really successful--_I Was a Slave Girl on Mars_.    "Our most prominent novelist was co-opted to ghostwrite that one.  Again, though, local income taxes took most of the money; authors  never have been protected the way a businessman is. We do make a high  percentage of profit on those little certificates you see around--you  know, the title deeds to one square inch of Mars--but expressed  absolutely, in dollars, it doesn't amount to much when we start  shopping for bulldozers and thermonuclear power plants."    "How about postage stamps?" inquired Doran. "Philately is a big  business, I have heard."    "It was our mainstay," admitted Matheny, "but it's been overworked.  Martian stamps are a drug on the market. What we'd like to operate is a  sweepstakes, but the anti-gambling laws on Earth forbid that."    *       *       *       *       *    Doran whistled. "I got to give your people credit for enterprise,  anyway!" He fingered his mustache. "Uh, pardon me, but have you tried  to, well, attract capital from Earth?"    "Of course," said Matheny bitterly. "We offer the most liberal  concessions in the Solar System. Any little mining company or transport  firm or--or anybody--who wanted to come and actually invest a few  dollars in Mars--why, we'd probably give him the President's daughter  as security. No, the Minister of Ecology has a better-looking one.  But who's interested? We haven't a thing that Earth hasn't got more  of. We're only the descendants of a few scientists, a few political  malcontents, oddballs who happen to prefer elbow room and a bill of  liberties to the incorporated state--what could General Nucleonics 
