  "What happened, Pete?" he asked uncertainly.    Matheny smiled. "I took some tourist movies," he said. "Self-developing  soundtrack film. Sit down and I'll show you."    "Well, thanks, but I am not so much for home movies."    "It won't take long. Please."    Doran shrugged, found a chair and took out a cigarette. "You seem  pretty well cheered up now," he remarked. "That is a spirit I like to  see. You have got to have faith."    "I'm thinking of a sideline business in live photography," said the  Martian. "Get back my losses of today, you know."    "Well, now, Pete, I like your spirit, like I say. But if you are really  interested in making some of that old baroom, and I think you are,  then listen--"    "I'll sell prints to people for home viewing," went on Matheny. "I'd  like your opinion of this first effort."    He dimmed the transparency and started the projector. The screen sprang  into colored motion. Sam Wendt blocked the doorway with his shoulders.    "Who knows, I might even sell you one of the several prints I made  today," said Matheny.    "Okay, louse," said Sam.    "Life is hard on Mars," commented Matheny in an idle tone, "and we're  an individualistic culture. The result is pretty fierce competition,  though on a person-to-person rather than organizational basis. All  friendly enough, but--Oh, by the way, how do you like our Martian  camera technology? I wore this one inside my buttonhole."    Doran in the screen shrugged and said: "I am sorry, Pete." Doran in  the chair stubbed out his cigarette, very carefully, and asked, "How  much do you want for that film?"    "Would a megabuck be a fair price?" inquired Matheny.    "Uh ... huh."    "Of course, I am hoping Sam will want a copy too."    Doran swallowed. "Yeah. Yes, I think I can talk him into it."    "Good." Matheny stopped the projector. He sat down on the edge of  the table, swinging one leg, and lit his pipe. Its bowl glowed in  the dimness like the eye of a small demon. "By the way," he said 
