childish voice was curiously tender around the rough syllables of  Earth's language.    He nodded and obeyed her hint. It was only the small pulse of blood  within him--you heard the same thing out in the great hollow silence of  space--but it did sing of restless immensities, wind and foam, and the  long waves marching under the moon.    "I have two of them myself," said Julith. "I want them so I can always  remember this beach. And my children and their children will hold them,  too, and hear our sea talking." She folded his fingers around the shell.  "You keep this one for yourself."    "Thank you," he said. "I will." The combers rolled in, booming and  spouting against the land. The Terrans called them the horses of God. A  thin cloud in the west was turning rose and gold.    "Are there oceans on our new planet?" asked Julith.    "Yes," he said. "It's the most Earth-like world we could find that  wasn't already inhabited. You'll be happy there."    _But the trees and grasses, the soil and the fruits thereof, the beasts  of the field and the birds of the air and the fish of the waters  beneath, form and color, smell and sound, taste and texture, everything  is different. Is alien. The difference is small, subtle, but it is the  abyss of two billion years of separate evolution, and no other world can  ever quite be Earth._    Julith looked straight at him with solemn eyes. "Are you folk afraid of  Hulduvians?" she asked.    "Why, no," he said. "Of course not."    "Then why are you giving Earth to them?" It was a soft question, but it  trembled just a little.    "I thought all your people understood the reason by now," said Jorun.  "Civilization--the civilization of man and his nonhuman allies--has  moved inward, toward the great star-clusters of Galactic center. This  part of space means nothing to us any more; it's almost a desert. You  haven't seen starlight till you've been by Sagittarius. Now the  Hulduvians are another civilization. They are not the least bit like us;  they live on big, poisonous worlds like Jupiter and Saturn. I think they 
