now, weeks, and it was like trying to knock down a mountain. You beat on  its rocky flanks till your hands were bloody, and still the mountain  stood there, sunlight on its high snow-fields and in the forests that  rustled up its slopes, and it did not really notice you. You were a  brief thin buzz between two long nights, but the mountain was forever.    "You haven't thought at all," he said with a rudeness born of  exhaustion. "You've only reacted unthinkingly to a dead symbol. It's not  a human reaction, even, it's a verbal reflex."    Kormt's eyes, meshed in crow's-feet, were serene and steady under the  thick gray brows. He smiled a little in his long beard, but made no  other reply. Had he simply let the insult glide off him, or had he not  understood it at all? There was no real talking to these peasants; too  many millennia lay between, and you couldn't shout across that gulf.    "Well," said Jorun, "the ships will be here tomorrow or the next day,  and it'll take another day or so to get all your people aboard. You have  that long to decide, but after that it'll be too late. Think about it, I  beg of you. As for me, I'll be too busy to argue further."    "You are a good man," said Kormt, "and a wise one in your fashion. But  you are blind. There is something dead inside you."    He waved one huge gnarled hand. "Look around you, Jorun of Fulkhis. This  is _Earth_. This is the old home of all humankind. You cannot go off and  forget it. Man cannot do so. It is in him, in his blood and bones and  bones and soul; he will carry Earth within him forever."    Jorun's eyes traveled along the arc of the hand. He stood on the edge of  the town. Behind him were its houses--low, white, half-timbered, roofed  with thatch or red tile, smoke rising from the chimneys; carved  galleries overhung the narrow, cobbled, crazily-twisting streets; he  heard the noise of wheels and wooden clogs, the shouts of children at  play. Beyond that were trees and the incredible ruined walls of Sol 
