recognized Kormt; the old man must have come as a guest from his farm on  the outskirts. "What could we do about it?"    "Now, Granther, that's no way to talk to the gentleman," said the woman.  "He's been very kind. Won't you come eat with us, good sir?"    Jorun refused twice, in case they were only being polite, then accepted  gladly enough. He was tired of cookery at the inn where he and Zarek  boarded. "Thank you."    He entered, ducking under the low door. A single long, smoky-raftered  room was kitchen, diningroom, and parlor; doors led off to the sleeping  quarters. It was furnished with a clumsy elegance, skin rugs, oak  wainscoting, carved pillars, glowing ornaments of hammered copper. A  radium clock, which must be incredibly old, stood on the stone mantel,  above a snapping fire; a chemical-powered gun, obviously of local  manufacture, hung over it. Julith's parents, a plain, quiet peasant  couple, conducted him to the end of the wooden table, while half a dozen  children watched him with large eyes. The younger children were the only  Terrans who seemed to find this removal an adventure.    The meal was good and plentiful: meat, vegetables, bread, beer, milk,  ice cream, coffee, all of it from the farms hereabouts. There wasn't  much trade between the few thousand communities of Earth; they were  practically self-sufficient. The company ate in silence, as was the  custom here. When they were finished, Jorun wanted to go, but it would  have been rude to leave immediately. He went over to a chair by the  fireplace, across from the one in which Kormt sprawled.    The old man took out a big-bowled pipe and began stuffing it. Shadows  wove across his seamed brown face, his eyes were a gleam out of  darkness. "I'll go down to City Hall with you soon," he said; "I imagine  that's where the work is going on."    "Yes," said Jorun, "I can relieve Zarek at it. I'd appreciate it if you  did come, good sir. Your influence is very steadying on these people."    "It should be," said Kormt. "I've been their Speaker for almost a  hundred years. And my father Gerlaug was before me, and his father Kormt 
