mountains of Sharang; the sky of Jareb, that seemed to drip light--oh,  many and many, but there was only one Earth.    Jorun remembered his first sight of this world, hanging free in space to  watch it after the gruelling ten-day run, thirty thousand light-years,  from Corazuno. It was blue as it turned before his eyes, a burnished  turquoise shield blazoned with the living green and brown of its lands,  and the poles were crowned with a flimmering haze of aurora. The belts  that streaked its face and blurred the continents were cloud, wind and  water and the gray rush of rain, like a benediction from heaven. Beyond  the planet hung its moon, a scarred golden crescent, and he had wondered  how many generations of men had looked up to it, or watched its light  like a broken bridge across moving waters. Against the enormous cold of  the sky--utter black out to the distant coils of the nebulae, thronging  with a million frosty points of diamond-hard blaze that were the  stars--Earth had stood as a sign of haven. To Jorun, who came from  Galactic center and its uncountable hosts of suns, heaven was bare, this  was the outer fringe where the stars thinned away toward hideous  immensity. He had shivered a little, drawn the envelope of air and  warmth closer about him, with a convulsive movement. The silence drummed  in his head. Then he streaked for the north-pole rendezvous of his  group.    _Well_, he thought now, _we have a pretty routine job. The first  expedition here, five years ago, prepared the natives for the fact  they'd have to go. Our party simply has to organize these docile  peasants in time for the ships._ But it had meant a lot of hard work,  and he was tired. It would be good to finish the job and get back home.    Or would it?    He thought of flying with Zarek, his team-mate, from the rendezvous to  this area assigned as theirs. Plains like oceans of grass, wind-rippled,  darkened with the herds of wild cattle whose hoofbeats were a thunder in  the earth; forests, hundreds of kilometers of old and mighty trees,  rivers piercing them in a long steel gleam; lakes where fish leaped; 
