  "Can't say we're doing much." Jorun locked the machine.    "Oh, the apple-knockers may not like it, but really, good sir, this  hasn't been any place for a man of enterprise. It's dead. I'd have got  out long ago if there'd been any transportation. Now, when we're getting  back into civilization, there'll be some real opportunities. I'll make  my pile inside of five years, you bet."    Jorun smiled, but there was a bleakness in him. What chance would this  barbarian have even to get near the gigantic work of civilization--let  alone comprehend it or take part in it. He hoped the little fellow  wouldn't break his heart trying.    "Well," he said, "goodnight, and good luck to you."    "Goodnight, sir. We'll meet again, I trust."    Jorun switched off the lights and went out into the square. It was  completely deserted. The moon was up now, almost full, and its cold  radiance dimmed the lamps. He heard a dog howling far off. The dogs of  Earth--such as weren't taken along--would be lonely, too.    _Well_, he thought, _the job's over. Tomorrow, or the next day, the  ships come._      4    He felt very tired, but didn't want to sleep, and willed himself back to  alertness. There hadn't been much chance to inspect the ruins, and he  felt it would be appropriate to see them by moonlight.    Rising into the air, he ghosted above roofs and trees until he came to  the dead city. For a while he hovered in a sky like dark velvet, a  faint breeze murmured around him, and he heard the remote noise of  crickets and the sea. But stillness enveloped it all, there was no real  sound.    Sol City, capital of the legendary First Empire, had been enormous. It  must have sprawled over forty or fifty thousand square kilometers when  it was in its prime, when it was the gay and wicked heart of human  civilization and swollen with the lifeblood of the stars. And yet those  who built it had been men of taste, they had sought out genius to create  for them. The city was not a collection of buildings; it was a balanced 
