skies," said the technician, "and a few still have cities, too, where it  is always light. But when every man can control the cosmic energies,  there is no real reason for us to live together; most of us dwell far  apart. There are very dark nights on my own world, and I cannot see any  other home from my own--just the moors."    "It must be a strange life," said Kormt. "Belonging to no one."    They came out on the market-square, a broad paved space walled in by  houses. There was a fountain in its middle, and a statue dug out of the  ruins had been placed there. It was broken, one arm gone--but still the  white slim figure of the dancing girl stood with youth and laughter,  forever under the sky of Earth. Jorun knew that lovers were wont to meet  here, and briefly, irrationally, he wondered how lonely the girl would  be in all the millions of years to come.    The City Hall lay at the farther end of the square, big and dark, its  eaves carved with dragons, and the gables topped with wing-spreading  birds. It was an old building; nobody knew how many generations of men  had gathered here. A long, patient line of folk stood outside it,  shuffling in one by one to the registry desk; emerging, they went off  quietly into the darkness, toward the temporary shelters erected for  them.    Walking by the line, Jorun picked faces out of the shadows. There was a  young mother holding a crying child, her head bent over it in a timeless  pose, murmuring to soothe it. There was a mechanic, still sooty from his  work, smiling wearily at some tired joke of the man behind him. There  was a scowling, black-browed peasant who muttered a curse as Jorun went  by; the rest seemed to accept their fate meekly enough. There was a  priest, his head bowed, alone with his God. There was a younger man, his  hands clenching and unclenching, big helpless hands, and Jorun heard him  saying to someone else: "--if they could have waited till after harvest.  I hate to let good grain stand in the field."   
