man left this planet. Records of everything. It is you who have  forgotten."    Kormt smiled and puffed blue clouds at him. "That's not what I meant."    "Do you mean you think it is good for men to live a life that is  unchanging, that is just the same from century to century--no new  dreams, no new triumphs, always the same grubbing rounds of days? I  cannot agree."    *       *       *       *       *    Jorun's mind flickered over history, trying to evaluate the basic  motivations of his opponent. Partly cultural, partly biological, that  must be it. Once Terra had been the center of the civilized universe.  But the long migration starward, especially after the fall of the First  Empire, drained off the most venturesome elements of the population.  That drain went on for thousands of years. Sol was backward, ruined and  impoverished by the remorseless price of empire, helpless before the  storms of barbarian conquest that swept back and forth between the  stars. Even after peace was restored, there was nothing to hold a young  man or woman of vitality and imagination here--not when you could go  toward Galactic center and join the new civilization building out there.  Space-traffic came ever less frequently to Sol; old machines rusted away  and were not replaced; best to get out while there was still time.    Eventually there was a fixed psychosomatic type, one which lived close  to the land, in primitive changeless communities and isolated  farmsteads--a type content to gain its simple needs by the labor of  hand, horse, or an occasional battered engine. A culture grew up which  increased that rigidity. So few had visited Earth in the last several  thousand years--perhaps one outsider a century, stopping briefly off on  his way to somewhere else--that there was no challenge or encouragement  to alter. The Terrans didn't _want_ more people, more machines, more  anything; they wished only to remain as they were.    You couldn't call them stagnant. Their life was too healthy, their 
