were built of moonlight. Jorun settled on its broken upper balcony,  dizzily high above the black-and-white fantasy of the ruins. A hawk flew  shrieking from its nest, then there was silence.    No--wait--another yell, ringing down the star ways, a dark streak across  the moon's face. "Hai-ah!" Jorun recognized the joyful shout of young  Cluthe, rushing through heaven like a demon on a broomstick, and scowled  in annoyance. He didn't want to be bothered now.    Well, they had as much right here as he. He repressed the emotion, and  even managed a smile. After all, he would have liked to feel gay and  reckless at times, but he had never been able to. Jorun was little older  than Cluthe--a few centuries at most--but he came of a melancholy folk;  he had been born old.    Another form pursued the first. As they neared, Jorun recognized  Taliuvenna's supple outline. Those two had been teamed up for one of the  African districts, but--    They sensed him and came wildly out of the sky to perch on the balcony  railing and swing their legs above the heights. "How're you?" asked  Cluthe. His lean face laughed in the moonlight. "Whoo-oo, what a  flight!"    "I'm all right," said Jorun. "You through in your sector?"    "Uh-huh. So we thought we'd just duck over and look in here. Last chance  anyone'll ever have to do some sight-seeing on Earth."    Taliuvenna's full lips drooped a bit as she looked over the ruins. She  came from Yunith, one of the few planets where they still kept cities,  and was as much a child of their soaring arrogance as Jorun of his hills  and tundras and great empty seas. "I thought it would be bigger," she  said.    "Well, they were building this fifty or sixty thousand years ago," said  Cluthe. "Can't expect too much."    "There is good art left here," said Jorun. "Pieces which for one reason  or another weren't carried off. But you have to look around for it."    "I've seen a lot of it already, in museums," said Taliuvenna. "Not bad."    "C'mon, Tally," cried Cluthe. He touched her shoulder and sprang into 
