  Bombarded from space; sacked again and again by the barbarian hordes who  swarmed maggot-like through the bones of the slain Empire; weathered,  shaken by the slow sliding of Earth's crust; pried apart by patient,  delicate roots; dug over by hundreds of generations of archaeologists,  treasure-seekers, the idly curious; made a quarry of metal and stone for  the ignorant peasants who finally huddled about it--still its empty  walls and blind windows, crumbling arches and toppled pillars held a  ghost of beauty and magnificence which was like a half-remembered dream.  A dream the whole race had once had.    _And now we're waking up._    Jorun moved silently over the ruins. Trees growing between tumbled  blocks dappled them with moonlight and shadow; the marble was very white  and fair against darkness. He hovered by a broken caryatid, marveling at  its exquisite leaping litheness; that girl had borne tons of stone like  a flower in her hair. Further on, across a street that was a lane of  woods, beyond a park that was thick with forest, lay the nearly complete  outline of a house. Only its rain-blurred walls stood, but he could  trace the separate rooms: here a noble had entertained his friends,  robes that were fluid rainbows, jewels dripping fire, swift cynical  interplay of wits like sharpened swords rising above music and the clear  sweet laughter of dancing-girls; here people whose flesh was now dust  had slept and made love and lain side-by-side in darkness to watch the  moving pageant of the city; here the slaves had lived and worked and  sometimes wept; here the children had played their ageless games under  willows, between banks of roses. Oh, it had been a hard and cruel time;  it was well gone but it had lived. It had embodied man, all that was  noble and splendid and evil and merely wistful in the race, and now its  late children had forgotten.    A cat sprang up on one of the walls and flowed noiselessly along it,  hunting. Jorun shook himself and flew toward the center of the city, the  imperial palace. An owl hooted somewhere, and a bat fluttered out of his  way like a small damned soul blackened by hellfire. He didn't raise a 
