Zarek strolled off again.    A young man and woman, walking hand in hand, turned out of the line not  far away and stood for a little while. A spaceman zoomed over to them.  "Better get back," he warned. "You'll get rained on."    "That's what we wanted," said the young man.    The spaceman shrugged and resumed his hovering. Presently the couple  re-entered the line.    The tail of the procession went by Jorun and the ship swallowed it fast.  The rain fell harder, bouncing off his force-shield like silver spears.  Lightning winked in the west, and he heard the distant exuberance of  thunder.    Kormt came walking slowly toward him. Rain streamed off his clothes and  matted his long gray hair and beard. His wooden shoes made a wet sound  in the mud. Jorun extended the force-shield to cover him. "I hope you've  changed your mind," said the Fulkhisian.    "No, I haven't," said Kormt. "I just stayed away till everybody was  aboard. Don't like goodbyes."    "You don't know what you're doing," said Jorun for  the--thousandth?--time. "It's plain madness to stay here alone."    "I told you I don't like goodbyes," said Kormt harshly.    "I have to go advise the captain of the ship," said Jorun. "You have  maybe half an hour before she lifts. Nobody will laugh at you for  changing your mind."    "I won't." Kormt smiled without warmth. "You people are the future, I  guess. Why can't you leave the past alone? I'm the past." He looked  toward the far hills, hidden by the noisy rain. "I like it here,  Galactic. That should be enough for you."    "Well, then--" Jorun held out his hand in the archaic gesture of Earth.  "Goodbye."    "Goodbye." Kormt took the hand with a brief, indifferent clasp. Then he  turned and walked off toward the village. Jorun watched him till he was  out of sight.    The technician paused in the air-lock door, looking over the gray  landscape and the village from whose chimneys no smoke rose. _Farewell,  my mother_, he thought. And then, surprising himself: _Maybe Kormt is  
