smiled at Kormt. "Glad you came, good sir. There are a few people I'd  like you to talk to." He gestured at half a dozen seated in the rear of  the room. Certain complaints were best handled by native leaders.    Kormt nodded and strode over to the folk. Jorun heard a man begin some  long-winded explanation: he wanted to take his own plow along, he'd made  it himself and there was no better plow in the universe, but the  star-man said there wouldn't be room.    "They'll furnish us with all the stuff we need, son," said Kormt.    "But it's _my_ plow!" said the man. His fingers twisted his cap.    Kormt sat down and began soothing him.    The head of the line waited a few meters off while Jorun took Zarek's  place. "Been a long grind," said the latter. "About done now, though.  And will I be glad to see the last of this planet!"    "I don't know," said Jorun. "It's a lovely world. I don't think I've  ever seen a more beautiful one."    Zarek snorted. "Me for Thonnvar! I can't wait to sit on the terrace by  the Scarlet Sea, fern-trees and red grass all around, a glass of oehl in  my hand and the crystal geysers in front of me. You're a funny one,  Jorun."    The Fulkhisian shrugged slender shoulders. Zarek clapped him on the back  and went out for supper and sleep. Jorun beckoned to the next Terran and  settled down to the long, almost mindless routine of registration. He  was interrupted once by Kormt, who yawned mightily and bade him  goodnight; otherwise it was a steady, half-conscious interval in which  one anonymous face after another passed by. He was dimly surprised when  the last one came up. This was a plump, cheerful, middle-aged fellow  with small shrewd eyes, a little more colorfully dressed than the  others. He gave his occupation as merchant--a minor tradesman, he  explained, dealing in the little things it was more convenient for the  peasants to buy than to manufacture themselves.    "I hope you haven't been waiting too long," said Jorun. Concy statement.    
