failure in the thermodynamic balance, a miscalculation in supply  inventory, a few mirrors perturbed out of proper orbit, might spell  Ragnarok. The chemical plant's purifications and syntheses were  already a network too large for the human mind to grasp as a whole,  and it was still growing. Even where men could have taken charge,  automation was cheaper, more reliable, less risky of lives. The  computer system housed in Central Control was not only the brain, but  the nerves and heart of the Sword.    "Entirely cryotronic, eh?" Warburton commented. "That seems to be the  usual practice at the Stations. Why?"    "The least expensive type for us," Blades answered. "There's no  problem in maintaining liquid helium here."    Warburton's gaze was peculiarly intense. "Cryotronic systems are  vulnerable to magnetic and radiation disturbances."    "Uh-huh. That's one reason we don't have a nuclear power plant. This  far from the sun, we don't get enough emission to worry about. The  asteroid's mass screens out what little may arrive. I know the TIMM  system is used on ships; but if nothing else, the initial cost is more  than we want to pay."    "What's TIMM?" inquired the _Altair's_ chaplain.    "Thermally Integrated Micro-Miniaturized," Ellen said crisply.  "Essentially, ultraminiaturized ceramic-to-metal-seal vacuum tubes  running off thermionic generators. They're immune to gamma ray and  magnetic pulses, easily shielded against particule radiation, and  economical of power." She grinned. "Don't tell me there's nothing  about them in Leviticus, Padre!"    "Very fine for a ship's autopilot," Blades agreed. "But as I said, we  needn't worry about rad or mag units here, we don't mind sprawling a  bit, and as for thermal efficiency, we want to waste some heat. It  goes to maintain internal temperature."    "In other words, efficiency depends on what you need to effish," Ellen  bantered. She grew grave once more and studied him for a while before  she mused, "The same person who swung a pick, a couple of years ago,  now deals with something as marvelous as this...." He forgot about  worrying.    *       *       *       *       * 
