up, the waste heat of man and his industry kept it that way. The dark,  chipped-out tunnels throbbed with machine noises. Here and there a  girlie picture or a sentimental landscape from Earth was posted. Men  moved busily along them, bearing tools, instruments, supplies. They  were from numerous countries, those men, though mostly North  Americans, but they had acquired a likeness, a rangy leathery look and  a free-swinging stride, that went beyond their colorful coveralls.    "Hi, Mike.... How's she spinning?... Hey, Mike, you heard the latest  story about the Martian and the bishop?... Can you spare me a minute?  We got troubles in the separator manifolds.... What's the hurry, Mike,  your batteries overcharged?" Blades waved the hails aside. There was  need for haste. You could move fast indoors, under the low weight  which became lower as you approached the axis of rotation, with no  fear of tumbling off. But it was several kilometers from the gas  receptor end to the people end of the asteroid.    He rattled down a ladder and entered his cramped office out of breath.  Avis Page looked up from her desk and wrinkled her freckled snub nose  at him. "You ought to take a shower, but there isn't time," she said.  "Here, use my antistinker." She threw him a spray cartridge with a  deft motion. "I got your suit and beardex out of your cabin."    "Have I no privacy?" he grumbled, but grinned in her direction. She  wasn't much to look at--not ugly, just small, brunette, and  unspectacular--but she was a supernova of an assistant. Make somebody  a good wife some day. He wondered why she hadn't taken advantage of  the situation here to snaffle a husband. A dozen women, all but two of  them married, and a hundred men, was a ratio even more lopsided than  the norm in the Belt. Of course with so much work to do, and with  everybody conscious of the need to maintain cordial relations, sex  didn't get much chance to rear its lovely head. Still--    She smiled back with the gentleness that he found disturbing when he  noticed it. "Shoo," she said. "Your guests will be here any minute.  You're to meet them in Jimmy's office." 
