   Chung's glance became downright murderous. "I thought--" he began.    "Sure." Blades nodded vigorously. "You being the senior partner,  you'll take the highest ranking of these gentlemen, and I'll be in  Scotland before you. C'mon, let's get started. May I?" He offered the  quartermistress his arm. She smiled and took it. He supposed that  eight or ten of her fellows trailed them.    *       *       *       *       *    The first disturbing note was sounded on the verandah.    [Illustration]    They had glanced at the cavelike dormitories where most of the  personnel lived; at the recreation dome topside which made the life  tolerable; at kitchen, sick bay, and the other service facilities; at  the hydroponic tanks and yeast vats which supplied much of the  Station's food; at the tiny cabins scooped out for the top engineers  and the married couples. Before leaving this end of the asteroid,  Blades took his group to the verandah. It was a clear dome jutting  from the surface, softly lighted, furnished as a primitive officers'  lounge, open to a view of half the sky.    "Oh-h," murmured Ellen Ziska. Unconsciously she moved closer to  Blades.    Young Lieutenant Commander Gilbertson gave her a somewhat jaundiced  look. "You've seen deep space often enough before," he said.    "Through a port or a helmet." Her eyes glimmered enormous in the dusk.  "Never like this."    The stars crowded close in their wintry myriads. The galactic belt  glistened, diamond against infinite darkness. Vision toppled endlessly  outward, toward the far mysterious shimmer of the Andromeda Nebula;  silence was not a mere absence of noise, but a majestic presence, the  seething of suns.    "What about the observation terrace at Leyburg?" Gilbertson  challenged.    "That was different," Ellen Ziska said. "Everything was safe and  civilized. This is like being on the edge of creation."    Blades could see why Goddard House had so long resisted the inclusion of  female officers on ships of the line, despite political pressure at home 
