another drink, listening as the mine owner's big voice went on:    "But what began it? When did the asterites first start realizing they  weren't pseudopods of a dozen Terrestrial nations, but a single nation  in their own right? There's the root of the revolution. And it can be  pinned down, too."    "'Ware metaphor!" cried someone at my elbow. I turned and saw Missy  Blades. She'd come quietly into the lounge and started mixing a gin  and bitters.    The view window framed her white head in Orion as she moved toward the  little cluster of seated men. She took a fat cigar from her pocket,  struck it on her shoe sole, and added her special contribution to the  blue cloud in the room after she sat down.    "Excuse me," she said. "I couldn't help that. Please go on." Which I  hope relieves you of any fear that she's an Unforgettable Character.  Oh, yes, she's old as Satan now; her toil and guts and conniving make  up half the biography of the Sword; she manned a gun turret at Ceres,  and was mate of the _Tyrfing_ on some of the earliest Saturn runs when  men took their lives between their teeth because they needed both  hands free; her sons and grandsons fill the Belt with their brawling  ventures; she can drink any ordinary man to the deck; she's one of the  three women ever admitted to the Club. But she's also one of the few  genuine ladies I've known in my life.    "Uh, well," Lindgren grinned at her. "I was saying, Missy, the germ of  the revolution was when the Stations armed themselves. You see, that  meant more than police powers. It implied a degree of sovereignty.  Over the years, the implication grew."    "Correct." Orloff nodded his bald head. "I remember how the Governing  Commission squalled when the Station managers first demanded the  right. They foresaw trouble. But if the Stations belonging to one  country put in space weapons, what else could the others do?"    "They should have stuck together and all been firm about refusing to  allow it," Amspaugh said. "From the standpoint of their own best 
