 "Her?" Avis wailed, and fled.    Chung sat down and flipped his intercom to Phone Central. "Get me  Captain Janichevski aboard the _Pallas_," he ordered. "Hello, Adam?  About that general alarm--"    Blades raised a haggard countenance toward Ellen's. "You better clear  out, along with the women and any men who don't want to stay," he  said. "But I think most of them will take the chance. They're on a  profit-sharing scheme, they stand to lose too much if the place is  ruined."    "What do you mean?"    "It's a gamble, but I don't believe Hulse's sealed orders extend to  murder. If enough of us stay put, he'll have to catch that thing. He  jolly well knows its exact trajectory."    "You forget we're under martial law," Chung said, aside to him. "If we  don't go freely, he'll land some PP's and march us off at gunpoint.  There isn't any choice. We've had the course."    "I don't understand," Ellen said shakily.    Chung went back to his intercom. Blades fumbled out his pipe and  rolled it empty between his hands. "That missile was shot off on  purpose," he said.    "What? No, you must be sick, that's impossible!"    "I realize you didn't know about it. Only three or four officers have  been told. The job had to be done very, very secretly, or there'd be a  scandal, maybe an impeachment. But it's still sabotage."    She shrank from him. "You're not making sense."    "Their own story doesn't make sense. It's ridiculous. A new missile  system wouldn't be sent on a field trial clear to the Belt before it'd  had enough tests closer to home to get the worst bugs out. A war-head  missile wouldn't be stashed anywhere near something so unreliable, let  alone be put under its control. The testing ship wouldn't hang around  a civilian Station while her gunnery chief tinkered. And Hulse,  Warburton, Liebknecht, they were asking in _such_ detail about how  radiation-proof we are."    "I can't believe it. Nobody will."    "Not back home. Communication with Earth is so sparse and garbled. The  
