partnership. The first such charter in the Belt, as far as I know,  though there'll be more in the future. The Bank of Ceres financed us.  We haven't taken a nickel of federal money."    "Is that possible?"    "Just barely. I'm no economist, but I can see how it works. Money  represents goods and labor. Hitherto those have been in mighty short  supply out here. Government subsidies made up the difference, enabling  us to buy from Earth. But now the asterites have built up enough  population and industry that they have some capital surplus of their  own, to invest in projects like this."    "Even so, frankly, I'm surprised that two men by themselves could get  such a loan. It must be huge. Wouldn't the bank rather have lent the  money to some corporation?"    "To tell the truth, we have friends who pulled wires for us. Also, it  was done partly on ideological grounds. A lot of asterites would like  to see more strictly home-grown enterprises, not committed to anyone  on Earth. That's the only way we can grow. Otherwise our profits--our  net production, that is--will continue to be siphoned off for the  mother country's benefit."    "Well," Ellen said with some indignation, "that was the whole reason  for planting asteroid colonies. You can't expect us to set you up in  business, at enormous cost to ourselves--things we might have done at  home--and get nothing but 'Ta' in return."    "Never fear, we'll repay you with interest," Blades said. "But  whatever we make from our own work, over and above that, ought to stay  here with us."    She grew angrier. "Your kind of attitude is what provoked the voters  to elect Social Justice candidates."    "Nice name, that," mused Blades. "Who can be against social justice?  But you know, I think I'll go into politics myself. I'll organize the  North American Motherhood Party."    "You wouldn't be so flippant if you'd go see how people have to live  back there."    "As bad as here? _Whew!_"    "Nonsense. You know that isn't true. But bad enough. And you aren't  going to stick in these conditions. Only a few hours ago, you were 
