  "All right," said Avis sweetly. "Far be it from me to prevent her  fulfilling her obligations. Afterward she may even write you an  occasional letter. I'm sure that'll brighten your Rehab cell no end."    "What can she do?" Blades argued, with an uneasy sense of whistling in  the dark. "She can't get off the asteroid without a scooter, and I've  already got Sam's gang working on all the scooters."    "Is there no other possibility? The radio shack?"    "With a man on duty there. That's out." Blades patted the girl's arm.    "O.K., I'll get back to work. But ... I'll be so glad when this is  over, Mike!"    Looking into the desperate brown eyes, Blades felt a sudden impulse to  kiss their owner. But no, there was too much else to do. Later,  perhaps. He cocked a thumb upward. "Carry on."    _Too bad about Ellen_, he thought as he continued toward his office.  _What an awful waste, to make a permanent enemy of someone with her  kind of looks. And personality--Come off that stick, you clabberhead!  She's probably the marryin' type anyway._    _In her shoes, though, what would I do? Not much; they'd pinch my  feet. But--damnation, Avis is right. She's not safe to have running  around loose. The radio shack? Sparks is not one of the few who've  been told the whole story and co-opted into the plan. She could_--    Blades cursed, whirled, and ran.    His way was clear. Most of the men were still in their dorms,  preparing to leave. He traveled in huge low-gravity leaps.    The radio shack rose out of the surface near the verandah. Blades  tried the door. It didn't budge. A chill went through him. He backed  across the corridor and charged. The door was only plastiboard--    He hit with a thud and a grunt, and rebounded with a numbed shoulder.  But it looked so easy for the cops on 3V!    No time to figure out the delicate art of forcible entry. He hurled  himself against the panel, again and again, heedless of the pain that  struck in flesh and bone. When the door finally, splinteringly gave 
