 "Scoopships," Blades told her. "They haul the cargo in, being so much  more maneuverable. Actually, though, the mother vessel is going to  park her load in orbit, while those boys bring in another one ... see,  there it comes into sight. We still haven't got the capacity to keep  up with our deliveries."    "How many are there? Scoopships, that is."    "Twenty, but you don't need more than four for this job. They've got  terrific power. Have to, if they're to dive from orbit down into the  Jovian atmosphere, ram themselves full of gas, and come back. There  they go."    The _Pallas Castle_ was wrestling the great sphere she had hauled from  Jupiter into a stable path computed by Central Control. Meanwhile the  scoopships, small only by comparison with her, locked onto the other  balloon as it drifted close. Energy poured into their drive fields.  Spiraling downward, transparent globe and four laboring spacecraft  vanished behind the horizon. The _Pallas_ completed her own task,  disengaged her towbars, and dropped from view, headed for the dock.    The second balloon rose again, like a huge glass moon on the opposite  side of the Sword. Still it grew in Ellen's eyes, kilometer by  kilometer of approach. So much mass wasn't easily handled, but the  braking curve looked disdainfully smooth. Presently she could make out  the scoopships in detail, elongated teardrops with the intake gates  yawning in the blunt forward end, cockpit canopies raised very  slightly above.    Instructions rattled from the men in the dome. The balloon veered  clumsily toward the one free receptor. A derricklike structure  released one end of a cable, which streamed skyward. Things that Ellen  couldn't quite follow in this tricky light were done by the four tugs,  mechanisms of their own extended to make their tow fast to the cable.    They did not cast loose at once, but continued to drag a little,  easing the impact of centrifugal force. Nonetheless a slight shudder  went through the dome as slack was taken up. Then the job was over.  The scoopships let go and flitted off to join their mother vessel. The  balloon was winched inward. Spacesuited men moved close, preparing to 
