was soon too far away for gyrogravitic pulse detection. The thrust  vector is unknown. It could be almost anywhere now.    "Well, naval missiles are programmed to reverse acceleration if they  haven't made a target within a given time. This one should be back in  less than six hours. If it first detects our ship, everything is all  right. It has optical recognition circuits that identify any North  American warcraft by type, disarm the war head, and steer it home.  But, if it first comes within fifty kilometers of some other  mass--like this asteroid or one of the companion rocks--it will  detonate. We'll make every effort to intercept, but space is big.  You'll have to take your people to a safe distance. They can come back  even after a blast, of course. There's no concussion in vacuum, and  the fireball won't reach here. It's principally an anti-personnel  weapon. But you must not be within the lethal radius of radiation."    "The hell we can come back!" Avis cried.    [Illustration]    "I beg your pardon?" Hulse said.    "You imbecile! Don't you know Central Control here is cryotronic?"    Hulse did not flicker an eyelid. "So it is," he said expressionlessly.  "I had forgotten."    *       *       *       *       *    Blades mastered his own shock enough to grate: "Well, we sure haven't.  If that thing goes off, the gamma burst will kick up so many minority  carriers in the transistors that the _p_-type crystals will act  _n_-type, and the _n_-type act _p_-type, for a whole couple of  microseconds. Every one of 'em will flip simultaneously! The  computers' memory and program data systems will be scrambled beyond  hope of reorganization."    "Magnetic pulse, too," Chung said. "The fireball plasma will be full  of inhomogeneities moving at several per cent of light speed. Their  electromagnetic output, hitting our magnetic core units, will turn  them from super to ordinary conduction. Same effect, total computer  amnesia. We haven't got enough shielding against it. Your TIMM systems 
