the 'pilots will be turned on if you try to go beyond range of the  beams now locked onto you. The other unit we've installed in every  boat is an ordinary two-for-a-dollar radiation meter. If a nuclear  weapon goes off, anywhere within a couple of thousand kilometers, the  switches will also close. In either of those cases, the scoopships  will dive on you.    "You might knock out a few with missiles, before they strike.  Undoubtedly you can punch holes in them with laser guns. But that  won't do any good, except when you're lucky enough to hit a vital  part. Nobody's aboard to be killed. Not even much gas will be lost, in  so short a time.    "So to summarize, chum, if that rogue missile explodes, your ship will  be struck by ten to twenty scoopships, each crammed full of  concentrated Jovian air. They'll pierce that thin hull of yours, but  since they're already pumped full beyond the margin of safety, the  impact will split them open and the gas will whoosh out. Do you know  what Jovian air does to substances like magnesium?    "You can probably save your crew, take to the boats and reach a  Commission base. But your nice battleship will be _ganz kaput_. Is  your game worth that candle?"    "You're totally insane! Releasing such a thing--"    "Oh, not permanently. There's one more switch on each boat, connected  to the meteorite evasion unit and controlled by a small battery. When  those batteries run down, in about twenty hours, the 'pilots will be  turned off completely. Then we can spot the scoopships by radar and  pick 'em up. And you'll be free to leave."    "Do you think for one instant that your fantastic claim of acting  legally will stand up in court?"    "No, probably not. But it won't have to. Obviously you can't make  anybody swallow your yarn if a _second_ missile gets loose. And as for  the first one, since it's failed in its purpose, your bosses aren't  going to want the matter publicized. It'd embarrass them to no end,  and serve no purpose except revenge on Jimmy and me--which there's no 
