develop naturally.    "Only ... here the Sword is, obviously bound to grow rich and expand  in every direction. If we're allowed to develop, to reinvest our  profits, we'll become the nucleus of independent asterite enterprise.  If, on the other hand, we're wiped out by an unfortunate accident,  there's no nucleus; and a small change in the banking laws is all  that's needed to prevent others from getting started. Q.E.D."    "I daresay Hulse does think he's doing his patriotic duty," said  Blades. "He wants to guarantee North America our natural resources--in  the long run, maybe, our allegiance. If he has to commit sabotage, too  bad, but it won't cost him any sleep."    "No!" Ellen almost screamed.    Chung sagged in his chair. "We're very neatly trapped," he said like  an old man. "I don't see any way out. Think you can get to work now,  Mike? You can assign group leaders for the evacuation--"    Blades jumped erect. "I can fight!" he growled.    "With what? Can openers?"    "You mean you're going to lie down and let them break us?"    Avis came back. She thrust the bottle into Blades' hands as he paced  the room. "Here you are," she said in a distant voice.    He held it out toward Ellen. "Have some," he invited.    "Not with you ... you subversive!"    Avis brightened noticeably, took the bottle and raised it. "Then  here's to victory," she said, drank, and passed it to Blades.    He started to gulp; but the wine was too noble, and he found himself  savoring its course down his throat. _Why,_ he thought vaguely, _do  people always speak with scorn about Dutch courage? The Dutch have  real guts. They fought themselves free of Spain and free of the ocean  itself; when the French or Germans came, they made the enemy sea their  ally_--    The bottle fell from his grasp. In the weak acceleration, it hadn't  hit the floor when Avis rescued it. "Gimme that, you big  butterfingers," she exclaimed. Her free hand clasped his arm.  "Whatever happens, Mike," she said to him, "we're not quitting." 
