resources of their conquests. Earth is a granary and a lumberyard for  Valgolia, and the iron of Mars and the petrolite of Venus go back to  their industry. What few factories they allow us, they take their fat  percentage of the product."    "Certainly they've made us economically dependent," I said, "and  their standard of living is undoubtedly higher than ours. But ours  has, on the whole, gone up since the conquest. We eat better, we're  healthier, we aren't burdened with the cost of past and present and  future wars. Our natural resources aren't being squandered. The forests  and watersheds and farmlands we ruined are coming back under Eridanian  supervision."    She gave me an odd look. "I thought you didn't like the Empire."    "I don't," I growled. "I don't want to be held back just because I'm  white-skinned. But I've known enough reddies personally so that I try  to be fair."    "It's all right with me," she said. "I can see your point,  intellectually, though I can't really _feel_ it. But not many of the  people will out at Main Base."    "Free men," I muttered sardonically.    We went fishing, and swam in the tumbling surf, and stretched  lazily on the beach with the sun pouring over us. Or we might go  tramping off into the woods on a picnic, to run laughing back when  a sudden rain rushed out of the sky, and afterward sit with beer  and cheese sandwiches listening to a wire of Beethoven or Mozart  or Tchaikovsky--the old Earthlings could write music, if they did  nothing else!--and to the rain shouting on the roof. We might have a  little highly illegal target practice, or a game of chess, or long  conversations which wandered off every which way. I began to have a  sneaking hope that the spaceship would be delayed.    We went out one day in Barbara's little catboat. The waves danced  around us, chuckling against the hull, glittering with sunlight, and  the sail was like a snow mountain against the sky. For a while we  chatted dreamily, ate our lunch, threw the scraps to the hovering  gulls. Then Barbara fell silent. 
