  _That's up to nobody else but you!_    I couldn't get much specific information, but then I hadn't expected  to. I collected my pay and drifted on eastward, talking to people of  all classes--farmers, mechanics, shopowners, tramps, and such data as I  gathered tallied with those of Intelligence.    About twenty-five per cent of the population, in North America at  least--it was higher in the Orient and Africa--was satisfied with the  Imperium, felt they were better off than they would have been in the  old days. "The Eridanians are pretty decent, on the whole. Some of 'em  come in here and act nice and human as you please."    Some fifty per cent was vaguely dissatisfied, wanted "freedom" without  troubling to define the term, didn't like the taxes or the labor draft  or the enforced disarmament or the legal and social superiority of  Valgolians or some such thing, had perhaps suffered in the reconquest.  But this group constituted no real threat. It would tend to be passive  whatever happened. Its greatest contribution would be sporadic rioting.    The remaining twenty-five per cent was bitter, waiting its chance,  muttering of a day of revenge--and some portion of this segment was  spreading propaganda, secretly manufacturing and distributing weapons,  engaging in clandestine military drill, and maintaining contact with  the shadowy Legion of Freedom.    Childish, melodramatic name! But it had been well chosen to appeal to a  certain type of mind. The real, organized core of the anarch movement  was highly efficient. In those months I spent wandering and waiting,  its activities mounted almost daily.    *       *       *       *       *    The illegal radio carried unending programs, propaganda, fabricated  stories of Valgolian brutality. I knew from personal experience that  some were false, and I knew the whole Imperial system well enough to  spot most of the rest at least partly invented. I realized we couldn't  trace such a well-organized setup of mobile and coordinated units, and  jamming would have been poor tactics, but even so-- 
