They'll have learned some degree of unity from this revolt and so the  next one will be more successful." He stood up and I got out of my  chair to face him. "That's for the future, though. We'll work out our  plans from the results of this campaign."    "But isn't there a lot of danger in the policy of fomenting rebellion  against us?" I asked.    He lifted his shoulders. "Evolution is always painful, forced evolution  even more so. Yes, there are great dangers, but advance information  from you and other agents can reduce the risk. It's a chance we must  take, Conru."    "Conrad," I corrected him, smiling. "Plain Mr. Conrad Haugen ... of  Earth."      II    A few days later, I left North America Center, and in spite of the  ominous need to hurry, my eastward journey was a ramble. The anarchs  would be sure to check my movements as far back as they could, and my  story had better ring true. For the present, I must _be_ my role, a  vagabond.    The city was soon behind me. It was far from other settlement--it is  good policy to keep the Centers rather isolated, and we could always  contact our garrisons in native towns quickly enough. Before long I was  alone in the mountains.    I liked that part of the trip. The Rockies are huge and serene, a fresh  cold wind blows from their peaks and roars in the pines, brawling  rivers foam through their dales and canyons--it is a big landscape,  clean and strong and lonely. It speaks with silence.    I hitched a ride for some hundreds of miles with one of the great  truck-trains that dominate the western highways. The driver was  Earthling, and though he complained much about the Valgolian tyranny he  looked well-fed, healthy, secure. I thought of the wars which had been  laying the planet waste, the social ruin and economic collapse which  the Empire had mended, and wondered if Terra would ever be fit to rule  itself.    I came out of the enormous mountainlands into the sage plains of  Nevada. For a few days I worked at a native ranch, listening to the 
