bloody snow toward us, with a crazed wind muttering and whining and  chewing at our flesh. It was cold. The cold was like a knife. Pain  stung with every breath and eyes watered with tears that froze on  suddenly numb cheeks. A great shudder ripped through us and we ran  toward the entrance to the city. The snow crunched dry and old under  our boots, the cold ate up through the soles, and the wind whistled its  scorn.    Even when an elevator had taken us a mile down into the warmth and  light of the base, we could not forget. It was a city for a million  men and other beings and more than a few women and children, a city  of long streets and small neat apartments, hydroponic farms and food  synthesizers, schools, shops and amusement places, factories, military  barracks and arsenals, even an occasional little flower garden. Its  people could live here almost indefinitely, working and waiting for  their day of rising.    There was little formality in the civilian areas. Everyone who had come  this far was trusted. A man came up to us new arrivals from Earth,  asked about conditions there, and then said he would show us to our  quarters. Later we would be told to whom we should report for duty.    "Let's go, then, Con," said Barbara, and slipped a cool little hand  into mine. I could not refrain from casting a smug backward glance at  the somewhat chapfallen Kane.      V    We slipped quickly into the routine of the place. It was a  taut-nerved, hard-working daily round. I could feel the savage  expectancy building up like a physical force, but intelligent life is  adaptable and we got used to it. There was work to do.    Hawkins was second in command of the psychological service, testing  and screening and treating personnel, working on training and  indoctrination, and with a voice in the general staff where problems  of unit coordination and psychological warfare were concerned.  Barbara worked under him, secretary and records keeper and general  trouble-shooter. Those were high posts, but both were allowed to retain  the nominally civilian status which they preferred. 
