  VI    I will never forget one certain evening.    Hawkins and I had come over to Barbara's for supper, and the three of  us were sitting now, talking. Wieniawski's Violin Concerto cried its  sorrow, muted in the background, and the serene home she had made of  the bare little functional apartment folded itself around us. Then Kane  dropped in as he often did, with a casualness that fooled nobody, and  sat with all his soul in his eyes, looking at Barbara. He was a nice  kid. I didn't know why he should annoy me so.    The talk shifted to Valgolia. I found myself taking the side of my  race. It wasn't that I hoped to convert anyone, but--well, it was wrong  that we should be monsters in the sight of these friends.    "Brutes," said Kane. "Two-legged animals. Damned bald-headed,  copper-skinned giants. Wouldn't be quite so bad if they were octopi or  insects, but they're just enough different from us to be a caricature.  It's obscene."    "Sartons look like a dirty joke on mankind," I said. "Why don't you  object to them?"    "They're in the same boat as us."    "Then why mix political and esthetic prejudices? And have you ever  thought that you look just as funny to an Eridanian?"    "No race should look odd to another," said Nat Hawkins. He puffed blue  clouds. "Even by our standards, the redskins are handsome, in a more  spectacular way than humans, maybe."    "And Barbara," I smiled, with a curious little pang inside me, "would  look good to any humanoid."    "I should think so," said Kane sulkily. "The redskins took enough of  our women."    "Well," I said, "their original conquistadores were young and healthy,  very far from home, and had just finished a hard campaign where they  lost many friends. At least there were no half-breeds afterward. And  since the reconquest none of their soldiers has been permitted to have  anything to do with an Earthwoman against her consent. It's not their  fault if the consent is forthcoming oftener than you idealists think."    "That sort of thing was more or less standard procedure at home with 
