   "I've found out a good bit, but it's all legitimate," said Martinez.  "He's about fifty years old, a widower, very steady private life. He's a  licensed psychiatrist who used to practice in Chicago, where he also did  research in collaboration with a physicist named Gavotti, who's since  died. Shortly after that happened--    "No, there's no suspicion of foul play; the physicist was an old man and  died of a heart attack. Anyway, Kennedy moved to New York. He still  practices, officially, but he doesn't take just anybody; claims that his  research only leaves him time for a few." Martinez narrowed his eyes.  "The only thing you could hold against him is that he occasionally sees  a guy named Bryce, who's in a firm that has some dealings with Amtorg."    "The Russian trading corporation? Hm."    "Oh, that's pretty remote guilt by association, Colin. Amtorg does have  legitimate business, you know. We buy manganese from them, among other  things. And the rest of Kennedy's connections are all strictly blue  ribbon. _Crème de la crème_--business, finance, politics, and one big  union-leader who's known to be a conservative. In fact, Kennedy's  friends are so powerful you'd have real trouble doing anything against  him."    Fraser slumped in his chair. "I suppose my notion was pretty wild," he  admitted.    "Well, there is one queer angle. You know these rich guys who've  suddenly made out with such highly desirable dames? As far as I could  find out, every one of them is a client of Kennedy's."    "Eh?" Fraser jerked erect.    "'S a fact. Also, my man showed the building staff, elevator pilots and  so on, pictures of these women, and a couple of 'em were remembered as  having come to see Kennedy."    "Shortly before they--fell in love?"    "Well, that I can't be sure of. You know how people are about  remembering dates. But it's possible."    Fraser shook his dark head. "It's unbelievable," he said. "I thought  Svengali was outworn melodrama."    "I know something about hypnotism, Colin. It won't do anything like what  you think happened to those girls." 
