Harkness."    He raised his arm, letting the sand run through his fingers. The beach  was big and dazzling white around them, the sea galloped in with a  steady roar, and a gull rode the breeze overhead. "What was wrong with  it?" he asked. "For a professional monicker, I mean."    She laughed and shook the long hair back over her shoulders. "I wanted  to live under the name of Sanders," she explained.    "Oh--oh, yes, of course. Winnie the Pooh." He grinned. "Soulmates,  that's what we are." It was about then that he decided he'd been a  bachelor long enough.    In the fall she went to New York to begin the upward grind--understudy,  walk-on parts, shoestring-theaters, and roles in outright turkeys.  Fraser returned to Boston for awhile, but his work suffered, he had to  keep dashing off to see her.    By spring she was beginning to get places; she had talent and everybody  enjoys looking at a brown-eyed blonde. His weekly proposals were also  beginning to show some real progress, and he thought that a month or two  of steady siege might finish the campaign. So he took leave from his job  and went down to New York himself. He'd saved up enough money, and was  good enough in his work, to afford it; anyway, he was his own  boss--consulting engineer, specializing in mathematical analysis.    He got a furnished room in Brooklyn, and filled in his leisure time--as  he thought of it--with some special math courses at Columbia. And he had  a lot of friends in town, in a curious variety of professions. Next to  Judy, he saw most of the physicist Sworsky, who was an entertaining  companion though most of his work was too top-secret even to be  mentioned. It was a happy period.    There is always a jarring note, to be sure. In this case, it was the  fact that Fraser had plenty of competition. He wasn't good-looking  himself--a tall gaunt man of twenty-eight, with a dark hatchet face and  perpetually-rumpled clothes. But still, Judy saw more of him than of  anyone else, and admitted she was seriously considering his proposal and  no other. 
