young woman working at each, and two burly men who sat boredly reading  magazines.    The pretty girl, obviously the receptionist, looked up as Fraser  approached and gave him a professional smile. "Yes, sir?" she asked.    "I'd like to see Dr. Kennedy, please," he said, trying hard to be  casual.    "Do you have an appointment, sir?"    "No, but it's urgent."    "I'm sorry, sir; Dr. Kennedy is very busy. He can't see anybody except  his regular patients and research subjects."    "Look, take him in this note, will you? Thanks."    Fraser sat uneasily for some minutes, wondering if he'd worded the note  correctly. _I must see you about Miss Judy Harkness._ _Important._ Well,  what the devil else could you say?    The receptionist came out again. "Dr. Kennedy can spare you a few  minutes, sir," she said. "Go right on in."    "Thanks." Fraser slouched toward the inner door. The two men lowered  their magazines to follow him with watchful eyes.    There was a big, handsomely-furnished office inside, with a door beyond  that must lead to the laboratory. Kennedy looked up from some papers and  rose, holding out his hand. He was a medium-sized man, rather plump,  graying hair brushed thickly back from a broad, heavy face behind  rimless glasses. "Yes?" His voice was low and pleasant. "What can I do  for you?"    "My name's Fraser." The visitor sat down and accepted a cigarette. Best  to act urbanely. "I know Miss Harkness well. I understand you made some  encephalographic studies of her."    "Indeed?" Kennedy looked annoyed, and Fraser recalled that Judy had been  asked not to tell anyone. "I'm not sure; I would have to consult my  records first." He wasn't admitting anything, thought Fraser.    "Look," said the engineer, "there's been a marked change in Miss  Harkness recently. I know enough psychology to be certain that such  changes don't happen overnight without cause. I wanted to consult you."    "I'm not her psychiatrist," said Kennedy coldly. "Now if you will excuse  me, I really have a lot to do--"    "All right," said Fraser. There was no menace in his tones, only a 
