"Colin's gotten a funny obsession," said Sworsky cautiously. "He thinks  Kennedy hypnotized you for Snyder. I keep telling him it's impossible,  but he can't get over the idea."    "Oh, no, no, no," she said with too much fervor. "It's nothing like  that. I'll tell you just what happened. We had those two measuring  sessions; it was kind of dull but nothing else. And then the third time  Kennedy did put me under hypnosis--he called it that, at least. I went  to sleep and woke up about an hour later and he sent me home. I felt all  good inside, happy, and shlo--slowly I began to see what Matt meant to  me.    "I called him up that evening. He said Kennedy's machine _did_ speed up  people's minds for a short while, sometimes, so they decided quick-like  what they'd've worked out anyway. Kennedy is--I don't know. It's funny  how ordinary he seemed at first. But when you get to know him, he's  like--God, almost. He's strong and wise and good. He--" Her voice  trailed off and she sat looking foolishly at her glass.    "You know," said Sworsky, "perhaps Colin is right after all."    "Don't say that!" She jumped up and slapped his face. "Kennedy's _good_,  I tell you! All you little lice sitting here making sly remarks behind  his back, and he's so, much bigger than all of you and--" She broke into  tears and stormed out of the apartment.    Sworsky reported the affair to Fraser. "I wonder," he said. "It doesn't  seem natural, I'll agree. But what can anybody do? The police?"    "I've tried," said Fraser dully. "They laughed. When I insisted, I damn  near got myself jugged. That's no use. The trouble is, none of the  people who've been under the machine will testify against Kennedy. He  fixes it so they worship him."    "I still think you're crazy. There _must_ be a simpler hypothesis; I  refuse to believe your screwy notions without some real evidence. But  what are you going to do now?"    "Well," said Fraser with a tautness in his voice, "I've got several  thousand dollars saved up, and Juan Martinez will help. Ever hear the 
