   "Oh, get off it, Galahad. I'll meet you in the Dixie lobby at seven.  Okay?" She blew him a kiss over the wires, and hung up before he could  argue further. He sighed and shrugged. Why not, if she wanted to?    They were in a little Hungarian restaurant, with a couple of Tzigani  strolling about playing for them alone, it seemed, when he asked for  details. "Did you get a bonus, or what?"    "No." She laughed at him over her drink. "I've turned guinea pig."    "I hope you quit _that_ job before we're married!"    "It's a funny deal," she said thoughtfully. "It'd interest you. I've  been out a couple of times with this Snyder, you know, and if anything  was needed to drive me into your arms, Colin, it's his political  lectures."    "Well, bless the Republican Party!" He laid his hand over hers, she  didn't withdraw it, but she frowned just a little.    "Colin, you know I want to get somewhere before I marry--see a bit of  the world, the theatrical world, before turning hausfrau. Don't be  so--Oh, never mind. I like you anyway."    Sipping her drink and setting it down again: "Well, to carry on with the  story. I finally gave Comrade Snyder the complete brush-off, and I must  say he took it very nicely. But today, this morning, he called asking me  to have lunch with him, and I did after he explained. It seems he's got  a psychiatrist friend doing research, measuring brain storms or  something, and--Do I mean storms? Waves, I guess. Anyway, he wants to  measure as many different kinds of people as possible, and Snyder had  suggested me. I was supposed to come in for three afternoons  running--about two hours each time--and I'd get a hundred dollars per  session."    "Hm," said Fraser. "I didn't know psych research was that well-heeled.  Who is this mad scientist?"    "His name is Kennedy. Oh, by the way, I'm not supposed to tell anybody;  they want to spring it on the world as a surprise or something. But  you're different, Colin. I'm excited; I want to talk to somebody about 
