Kennedy leaned forward with an air of urgency. "The end result is in no  way different from ordinary means of persuasion. Propaganda does the  same thing by sheer repetition. If you're courting a girl, you try to  identify yourself in her mind with the things she desires, by  appropriate behavior.... I'm sorry; I shouldn't have used that  example.... The machine is only a direct, fast way of doing this,  producing a more stable result."    "It's still--tampering," said Fraser. "How do you know you're not  creating side-effects, doing irreparable long-range damage?"    "Oh, for Lord's sake!" exploded Kennedy. "Take your mind off that shelf,  will you? I've told you how delicate the whole thing is. A few  microwatts of power more or less, a frequency-shift of less than one  percent, and it doesn't work at all. There's no effect whatsoever." He  cooled off fast, adding reflectively: "On the given subject, that is. It  might work on someone else. These pulsations are a highly individual  matter; I have to calibrate every case separately."    There was a long period of silence. Then Fraser strained forward and  said in an ugly voice:    "All right You've told me how you do it. Now tell me _why_. What  possible reason or excuse, other than your own desire to play God? This  thing could be the greatest psychiatric tool in history, and you're  using it to--pimp!"    "I told you that was unimportant," said Kennedy quietly. "I'm doing much  more. I set up in practice here in New York a couple of years ago. Once  I had a few chance people under control--no, I tell you again, I didn't  make robots of them. I merely associated myself, in their own minds,  with the father-image. That's something I do to everyone who comes under  the machine, just as a precaution if nothing else, Kennedy is all-wise,  all-powerful; Kennedy can do no wrong. It isn't a conscious realization;  to the waking mind, I am only a shrewd adviser and a damn swell fellow.  But the subconscious mind knows otherwise. It wouldn't _let_ my subjects  act against me; it wouldn't even let them want to.    "Well, you see how it goes. I got those first few people to recommend me 
