"Listen before you do anything," said Fraser harshly. "I know you tried  to bring Jim Sworsky under the influence. You asked him for top-secret  data. A few hours ago, you handed the file he brought you on to Bryce,  who's no doubt at the Amtorg offices this minute. That's high treason,  Kennedy; they execute people for doing that."    The psychologist slumped back.    "Don't try to have your bully boys get rid of me," said Fraser. "Sworsky  is sitting by the phone, waiting to call the FBI. I'm the only guy who  can stop him."    "But--" Kennedy's tongue ran around his lips. "But he committed treason  himself. He gave me the papers!"    Fraser grinned. "You don't think those were authentic, do you? I doubt  if you'll be very popular in the Soviet Union either, once they've tried  to build machines using your data."    Kennedy looked down at the floor. "How did you do it?" he whispered.    "Remember Ferris? The guy you fixed up for me? He owns a share of your  next-door neighbor, the Messenger Advertising Service. I fed him a song  and dance about needing an office to do some important work, only my  very whereabouts had to be secret. The Messenger people were moved out  without anybody's knowing. I installed myself there one night, also a  simple little electric oscillator.    "Encephalography is damn delicate work; it involves amplifications up to  several million. The apparatus misbehaves if you give it a hard look.  Naturally, your lab and the machine were heavily shielded, but even so,  a radio emitter next door would be bound to throw you off. My main  trouble was in lousing you up just a little bit, not enough to make you  suspect anything.    "I only worked at that during your calibrating sessions with Sworsky. I  didn't have to be there when you turned the beam on him, because it  would be calculated from false data and be so far from his pattern as to  have no effect. You told me yourself how precise an adjustment was  needed. Sworsky played along, then. Now we've got proof--not that you  meddled with human lives, but that you are a spy." 
