 theory and its circuits myself. But look, you know something of  encephalography. The various basic rhythms of the brain have been  measured. The standard method is already so sensitive that it can detect  abnormalities like a developing tumor or a strong emotional disturbance,  that will give trouble unless corrected. Half of Gavotti's machine is a  still more delicate encephalograph. It can measure and analyze the  minute variations in electrical pulses corresponding to the basic  emotional states. It won't read thoughts, no; but once calibrated for a  given individual, it will tell you if he's happy, sorrowful, angry,  disgusted, afraid--any fundamental neuro-glandular condition, or any  combination of them."    He paused. "All right," said Fraser. "What else does it do?"    "It does _not_ make monsters," said Kennedy. "Look, the specific  emotional reaction to a given stimulus is, in the normal individual,  largely a matter of conditioned reflex, instilled by social environment  or the accidental associations of his life.    "Anyone in decent health will experience fear in the presence of  danger; desire in the presence of a sexual object, and so on. That's  basic biology, and the machine can't change that. But most of our  evaluations are learned. For instance, to an American the word 'mother'  has powerful emotional connotations, while to a Samoan it means nothing  very exciting. You had to develop a taste for liquor, tobacco,  coffee--in fact most of what you consume. If you're in love with a  particular woman, it's a focusing of the general sexual libido on her,  brought about by the symbolizing part of your mind: she _means_  something to you. There are cultures without romantic love, you know.  And so on. All these specific, conditioned reactions can be changed."    "How?"    *       *       *       *       *    Kennedy thought for a moment "The encephalographic part of the machine  measures the exact pulsations in the individual corresponding to the  various emotional reactions. It takes me about four hours to determine  those with the necessary precision; then I have to make statistical 
