  "As even, as we'll ever get, I suppose," said Fraser.    "I wish you'd trust me," said Kennedy with a hint of wistfulness. "I'd  have done the job honestly; you didn't have to watch."    "Well, I was interested," said Fraser.    "Frankly, I still don't see what you stand to gain by the doglike  devotion of this Ferris. He's rich, but he's too weak and short-sighted  to be a leader. I'd never planned on conditioning him for my purposes."    "I've explained that," said Fraser patiently. "Ferris is a large  stockholder in a number of corporations. His influence can swing a lot  of business my way."    "Yes, I know. I didn't grant your wish blindly, you realize. I had  Ferris studied; he's unable to harm me." Kennedy regarded Fraser with  hard eyes. "And just in case you still have foolish notions, please  remember that I gave him the father-conditioning with respect to myself.  He'll do a lot for you, but not if it's going to hurt me in any way."    "I know when I'm licked," said Fraser bleakly; "I'm getting out of town  as soon as I finish those courses I'm signed up for."    Kennedy snapped his fingers. "All right, Ferris, wake up now."    Ferris blinked. "What's been happening?" he asked.    "Nothing much," said Kennedy, unbuckling the electrodes. "I've taken my  readings. Thank you very much for the help, sir. I'll see that you get  due credit when my research is published."    "Ah--yes. Yes." Ferris puffed himself out. Then he put an arm around  Fraser's shoulder. "If you aren't busy," he said, "maybe we could go  have lunch."    "Thanks," said Fraser. "I'd like to talk to you about a few things."    He lingered for a moment after Ferris had left the room. "I imagine this  is goodbye for us," he said.    "Well, so long, at least. We'll probably hear from each other again."  Kennedy shook Fraser's hand. "No hard feelings? I did go to a lot of  trouble for you--wangling your introduction to Ferris when you'd named  him, and having one of my men persuade him to come here. And right when 
