   Fraser's heart sprang in his ribs, but he held his voice stiff. "Go on,  then. Talk."    "I want you to come up to my place. We may be having a long  conversation."    "Mmmm--well--" It was more than he had allowed himself to hope for, but  he remained curt: "Okay. But a full report of this business, and what I  think you're doing, is in the hands of several people. If anything  should happen to me--"    "You've been reading too many hard-boileds," said Kennedy. "Nothing will  happen. Anyway, I have a pretty good idea who those people are; I can  hire detectives of my own, you know."    "I'll come over, then." Fraser hung up and realized, suddenly, that he  was sweating.    The night air was cool as he walked down the street. He paused for a  moment, feeling the city like a huge impersonal machine around him,  grinding and grinding. Human civilization had grown too big, he thought.  It was beyond anyone's control; it had taken on a will of its own and  was carrying a race which could no longer guide it. Sometimes--reading  the papers, or listening to the radio, or just watching the traffic go  by like a river of steel--a man could feel horribly helpless.    He took the subway to Kennedy's address, a swank apartment in the lower  Fifties. He was admitted by the psychiatrist in person; no one else was  around.    "I assume," said Kennedy, "that you don't have some wild idea of pulling  a gun on me. That would accomplish nothing except to get you in  trouble."    "No," said Fraser, "I'll be good." His eyes wandered about the living  room. One wall was covered with books which looked used; there were some  quality reproductions, a Capehart, and fine, massive furniture. It was a  tasteful layout. He looked a little more closely at three pictures on  the mantel: a middle-aged woman and two young men in uniform.    "My wife," said Kennedy, "and my boys. They're all dead. Would you like  a drink?"    "No. I came to talk."    "I'm not Satan, you know," said Kennedy. "I like books and music, good 
