 persuade these other people--they only know that I do, somehow, and  their regard for their own egos, as well as for me, sets up a bloc which  prevents them from reasoning out the fact that they themselves are  dominated. They're quite content to accept the results of my help,  without inquiring further into the means than the easy rationalization  that I have a 'persuasive personality.'    "I don't like what I'm doing, Fraser. But it's got to be done."    "You still haven't said _what's_ got to be done," answered the engineer  coldly.    "I've been given something unbelievable," said Kennedy. His voice was  very soft now. "If I'd made it public, can you imagine what would have  happened? Psychiatrists would use it, yes; but so would criminals,  dictators, power-hungry men of all kinds. Even in this country, I don't  think libertarian principles could long survive. It would be too  simple--    "And yet it would have been cowardly to break the machine and burn  Gavotti's notes. Chance has given me the power to be more than a chip in  the river--a river that's rapidly approaching a waterfall, war,  destruction, tyranny, no matter who the Pyrrhic victor may be. I'm in a  position to do something for the causes in which I believe."    "And what are they?" asked Fraser.    Kennedy gestured at the pictures on the mantel. "Both my sons were  killed in the last war. My wife died of cancer--a disease which would be  licked now if a fraction of the money spent on armaments had been  diverted to research. That brought it home to me; but there are hundreds  of millions of people in worse cases. And war isn't the only  evil--there is poverty, oppression, inequality, want and suffering. It  could be changed.    "I'm building up my own lobby, you might say. In a few more years, I  hope to be the indispensable adviser of all the men who, between them,  really run this country. And yes, I have been in touch with Soviet  agents--have even acted as a transmitter of stolen information. The  basic problem of spying, you know, is not to get the information in the 
