oars. Yes--a cold feast!    "But then, Svearek has been strange since the troll took his daughter,  three years ago," went on Torbek. He shivered in a way the winter had  not caused. "Never does he smile, and his once open hand grasps tight  about the silver and his men have poor reward and no thanks. Yes,  strange--" His small frost-blue eyes shifted to Cappen Varra, and the  unspoken thought ran on beneath them: Strange, even, that he likes you,  the wandering bard from the south. Strange, that he will have you in his  hall when you cannot sing as his men would like.    Cappen did not care to defend himself. He had drifted up toward the  northern barbarians with the idea that they would well reward a minstrel  who could offer them something more than their own crude chants. It had  been a mistake; they didn't care for roundels or sestinas, they yawned  at the thought of roses white and red under the moon of Caronne, a moon  less fair than my lady's eyes. Nor did a man of Croy have the size and  strength to compel their respect; Cappen's light blade flickered swiftly  enough so that no one cared to fight him, but he lacked the power of  sheer bulk. Svearek alone had enjoyed hearing him sing, but he was  niggardly and his brawling thorp was an endless boredom to a man used to  the courts of southern princes.    If he had but had the manhood to leave-- But he had delayed, because of  a lusty peasant wench and a hope that Svearek's coffers would open  wider; and now he was dragged along over the Wolf's Throat to a  midwinter feast which would have to be celebrated on the sea.    "Had we but fire--" Torbek thrust his hands inside his cloak, trying to  warm them a little. The ship rolled till she was almost on her beam  ends; Torbek braced himself with practiced feet, but Cappen went into  the bilge again.    He sprawled there for a while, his bruised body refusing movement. A  weary sailor with a bucket glared at him through dripping hair. His  shout was dim under the hoot and skirl of wind: "If ye like it so well 
