stockfish and hardtack, to the laughter of Svearek's men, when the gale  started.    Numb fingers groped anxiously for the harp on his back. It still seemed  intact in its leather case. He didn't care about the sodden wadmal  breeks and tunic that hung around his skin. The sooner they rotted off  him, the better. The thought of the silks and linens of Croy was a sigh  in him.    Why had he come to Norren?    A gigantic form, vague in the whistling dark, loomed beside him and gave  him a steadying hand. He could barely hear the blond giant's bull tones:  "Ha, easy there, lad. Methinks the sea horse road is too rough for yer  feet."    "Ulp," said Cappen. His slim body huddled on the bench, too miserable to  care. The sleet pattered against his shoulders and the spray congealed  in his red hair.    Torbek of Norren squinted into the night. It made his leathery face a  mesh of wrinkles. "A bitter feast Yolner we hold," he said. "'Twas a  madness of the king's, that he would guest with his brother across the  water. Now the other ships are blown from us and the fire is drenched  out and we lie alone in the Wolf's Throat."    Wind piped shrill in the rigging. Cappen could just see the longboat's  single mast reeling against the sky. The ice on the shrouds made it a  pale pyramid. Ice everywhere, thick on the rails and benches, sheathing  the dragon head and the carved stern-post, the ship rolling and  staggering under the great march of waves, men bailing and bailing in  the half-frozen bilge to keep her afloat, and too much wind for sail or  oars. Yes--a cold feast!    "But then, Svearek has been strange since the troll took his daughter,  three years ago," went on Torbek. He shivered in a way the winter had  not caused. "Never does he smile, and his once open hand grasps tight  about the silver and his men have poor reward and no thanks. Yes,  strange--" His small frost-blue eyes shifted to Cappen Varra, and the  unspoken thought ran on beneath them: Strange, even, that he likes you, 
