  "I tell you, silver has no use against me--"    Cappen sprawled on the floor and rippled fingers across his harp. "_A  lovely lady full oft lies--_"    The troll-wife turned from him in a rage. Hildigund ladled up some  broth, saying nothing, and Cappen ate it with pleasure, though it could  have used more seasoning.    After that he indited a sonnet to the princess, who regarded him  wide-eyed. The troll came back from a tunnel after he finished, and said  curtly: "This way." Cappen took the girl's hand and followed her into a  pitchy, reeking dark.    She plucked an arras aside to show a room which surprised him by being  hung with tapestries, lit with candles, and furnished with a fine broad  featherbed. "Sleep here tonight, if you dare," she growled. "And  tomorrow I shall eat you--and you, worthless lazy she-trash, will have  the hide flayed off your back!" She barked a laugh and left them.    Hildigund fell weeping on the mattress. Cappen let her cry herself out  while he undressed and got between the blankets. Drawing his sword, he  laid it carefully in the middle of the bed.    The girl looked at him through jumbled fair locks. "How can ye dare?"  she whispered. "One breath of fear, one moment's doubt, and the troll is  free to rend ye."    "Exactly." Cappen yawned. "Doubtless she hopes that fear will come to me  lying wakeful in the night. Wherefore 'tis but a question of going  gently to sleep. O Svearek, Torbek, and Beorna, could you but see how I  am resting now!"    "But ... the three truths ye gave her ... how knew ye...?"    "Oh, those. Well, see you, sweet lady, Primus and Secundus were my own  thoughts, and who is to disprove them? Tertius was also clear, since you  said there had been no company here in three years--yet are there many  trolls in these lands, ergo even they cannot stomach our gentle  hostess." Cappen watched her through heavy-lidded eyes.    She flushed deeply, blew out the candles, and he heard her slip off her  garment and get in with him. There was a long silence. 
