there was ice and horror in it, for a moment Cappen's heart stumbled.  Then he remembered the amulet and strode boldly inside.    "Good evening, mother," he said cheerily.    The cave widened out into a stony hugeness that gaped with tunnels  leading further underground. The rough, soot-blackened walls were hung  with plundered silks and cloth-of-gold, gone ragged with age and damp;  the floor was strewn with stinking rushes, and gnawed bones were heaped  in disorder. Cappen saw the skulls of men among them. In the center of  the room, a great fire leaped and blazed, throwing billows of heat  against him; some of its smoke went up a hole in the roof, the rest  stung his eyes to watering and he sneezed.    The troll-wife crouched on the floor, snarling at him. She was quite the  most hideous thing Cappen had ever seen: nearly as tall as he, she was  twice as broad and thick, and the knotted arms hung down past bowed  knees till their clawed fingers brushed the ground. Her head was  beast-like, almost split in half by the tusked mouth, the eyes wells of  darkness, the nose an ell long; her hairless skin was green and cold,  moving on her bones. A tattered shift covered some of her monstrousness,  but she was still a nightmare.    "Ho-ho, ho-ho!" Her laughter roared out, hungry and hollow as the surf  around the island. Slowly, she shuffled closer. "So my dinner comes  walking in to greet me, ho, ho, ho! Welcome, sweet flesh, welcome, good  marrow-filled bones, come in and be warmed."    "Why, thank you, good mother." Cappen shucked his cloak and grinning at  her through the smoke. He felt his clothes steaming already. "I love you  too."    Over her shoulder, he suddenly saw the girl. She was huddled in a  corner, wrapped in fear, but the eyes that watched him were as blue as  the skies over Caronne. The ragged dress did not hide the gentle curves  of her body, nor did the tear-streaked grime spoil the lilt of her face.  "Why, 'tis springtime in here," cried Cappen, "and Primavera herself is  strewing flowers of love."    
