  "Right," said Kielgaard. "Only they aren't doing it. We've spied both  planets till we can't see straight. Fumidor has a mine entrance and a  mataform center. Vacation Planet has a mataform center and one or two  big buildings. And that's it. There's no emigration from Porcys to the  other two planets. Instead, there's a sort of cycling flow from Porcys  to Vacation Planet to Fumidor to Porcys. Why?    "The Porcyn we brain-spied," he went on, "associated Vacation Planet  with 'rejuvenation.' What does that mean we're up against? Galactic  wants to make a contract, but not till they know what they're  dealing with. There are some races it's best to leave alone. This  'rejuvenation' might be worth more than the seafood, sure, but it could  also be a sackful of trouble."    Dan waited, realizing that Kielgaard had come to the crux of the matter.    Kielgaard said, "Galactic wants us to find the answers to three  problems. One, how do the Porcyns keep the size of their population  down? Two, what is the connection between rejuvenation and 'Vacation  Planet'? And three, do the Porcyns have a proper mercantile attitude?  Are they likely to make an agreement? Will they keep one they do make?"    Kielgaard looked intently at Dan. "The only way we're likely to  find the answers in a reasonable time is to send someone in. You're  elected."    "Just me?" asked Dan in surprise. "All your eggs in one basket?"    "In a situation like this," said Kielgaard, "one good man is worth  several gross of dubs. We're relying on you to keep your eyes open and  your mind on what you're doing."    "And suppose I don't come back?"    "Galactic probably loses the jump it's got on Trans-Space and you miss  out on a big bonus."    "When do I leave?"    "Tomorrow morning. But today you'd better go down and pick up a set of  Porcyn clothes we've had made for you and some of their money. It'd  be a good idea to spend the evening getting used to things. We've  implanted in your brain the Porcyn language patterns we brain-spied 
