  Feeling that his brain was functioning in a vacuum, Dan followed the  Milbuns into the hall, climbed down six stories on a ladder, then into  the basement on a rope. He found himself in a room with a stony dirt  track around the wall, ropes festooning the ceiling, an irregularly  shaped pool, and artificial shrubs and foliage from behind which sprang  mechanical monsters. The Milbuns promptly vanished behind imitation  vine-covered doors and came out again in gym clothes.    Dan went through the doorway Mr. Milbun had come out of and discovered  that the Save-Your-Life Co. had a machine inside which dispensed  washed, pressed and sterilized gym clothes for a small fee. The machine  worked by turning a selector dial to the proper size, pressing a lever,  and then depositing the correct fee in an open box on the wall nearby.  Dan studied this a moment in puzzlement, guessed his proper size and  put the correct payment in the box.    He put on the gym clothes and went outside.    For forty-five minutes, mechanical creatures of odd and various shapes  sprang at him from behind shrubbery, gripped him when he passed holes  in the floor and wound themselves around his legs as he tried to swim  in the pool.    His temper worsened. He stopped to look at Mavis as she swayed,  laughing, on a rope above two things like mobile giant clamshells.    Mr. Milbun shook his head. "Mavis, remember, we're leaving _tomorrow_."    Just then, something snarled and lunged at Dan from the side. There was  a flash of teeth.    Dan whirled. His fist shot out. There was a scream of machinery, then  a crash and a clatter. An imitation monster with a huge jaw and giant  teeth lay on its back on the floor.    Milbun let out a slow whistle. "_Dismounted_ it. Boy!"    "A one-bite, too," breathed Mavis.    Mrs. Milbun came over and looked at Dan approvingly.    Dan had been about to apologize, but checked himself when the others  smiled cheerfully and went back to what they were doing. This consisted  of dodging, tricking or outrunning the various contraptions that lunged 
