hand does nothing but keep the circle--their system--from flying apart.  What puzzles me is that they're satisfied with it."    "There's another point," Dan said, "but I think I see it now. They've  got a caste system, but people must be able to move from one caste to  another. There must be a competitive exam or some system of choice.  The vacation advisor said Mr. Milbun was 'at present' a merchant. His  wife was 'now' a housewife. And no one ever asked my name, though I  told it voluntarily to Milbun. It was always 'Yes, Devisement,' or 'Is  it time to take your vacation, Devisement?' There were no personal  titles like 'Sir Moglin,' or 'First Magistrate Moglin,' such as we've  encountered on other planets."    Kielgaard grunted. "That would explain the differently colored capes,  too. No one would care if a man was a street-cleaner ten years ago.  They'd see his cape was blue and give him immediate, automatic respect."    "Yes," said Dan. "That's it. And no one would dare _cheat_ about  the color of the cape he wore, because, regardless of his position,  sooner or later his charge would be gone. Then he would have to go on  vacation. And to do _that_, he _has_ to sit in the truth chair and tell  the truth or get incinerated." Dan stopped suddenly and sucked in a  deep breath.    "What's wrong?" asked Kielgaard.    "_That's_ the weak point."      VI    By the end of the week, Dan was able to pass through a door with a  specialized type of Geiger counter in the locking circuit.    And by that time, Kielgaard had noted sharp fluctuations in the mood  at Trans-Space. There had been an interval of wild confusion, but it  hadn't lasted. Many more Trans-Space agents had gone to Porcys and  Trans-Space seemed to be on top again.    The instant Dan stepped from the mines through the door marked "Out,"  he was rushed through a shower, a shave and a haircut, shoved into  a truth chair and asked questions, given a new cape and clothes,  and buckled into a glittering belt by a purple-caped man addressed 
