however, we are buyers, buyers, we hope, of a particular area. Because  of what we have in mind to do we would rather it was done quietly and  without any publicity. Had we engaged the services of a large agency  this would not be possible, for, if I may coin a phrase, the trumpet  must blow strongly to announce the coming of genius." He smiled, stroked  his chin, looked up at the ceiling and his lips moved silently as if he  enjoyed repeating the phrase.    "I like that, Robert," Evin said.    "Yes, I thought it was good," Robert said.    They both looked to Muldoon.    Muldoon said nothing.    The twins sighed audibly, in unison.    Robert's lips came forward in a pout. The look of a pouting cherub,  Muldoon thought, one trying to look stern, and only succeeding in  looking naughty-childish. Muldoon suddenly knew of whom the twins  reminded him. Twin Charles Laughtons, without hair.    "You _are_ free to work for us?" Robert asked.    "_With_ you," Muldoon said. "_I_ have the license." He gave them a quick  smile, as if to lessen the sharpness of the tone he had used. "A broker  acts for a client in the purchase or sale of property. He can't be  employed by them."    "Of course," Robert said quickly. "I did not mean to imply any other  action. Now suppose you tell us briefly about yourself."    Muldoon gave them a thumbnail sketch of his career. He noted their  pleased look that he was a one-man agency. At the conclusion, Robert  stood up and came around the desk. He thrust a hand at Muldoon.    Like shaking hands with a piece of warm dough, Muldoon thought.    "I do believe," Robert said as he placed a heavy arm around Muldoon's  shoulder, and walked him to the door, "that we shall have a mutually  happy relationship. You will not be unrewarded, moneywise." He opened  the door, paused, still with his arm around Muldoon, and looked steadily  into Muldoon's eyes. "Yes, I think there will be mutual benefits in our  relationship. Now, in conclusion, will you pick us up at this office 
