  He got up, paid the check and went out. It wasn't till he was on Third  Ave. that he was conscious he had started to go crosstown when his  office was in the opposite direction. He smiled wryly. Might as well  investigate, he thought. Can't do any harm, and it won't take long.    There were four others waiting in the small anteroom. The outer door  bore no legend other than the room number, and the inner door was blank  altogether. Muldoon made a quick appraisal of those waiting. Three  were obviously past middle-age, the fourth about Muldoon's age. The  inner door opened and Muldoon looked up. A tall man came out first, a  man in his early sixties, perhaps. Immediately behind him came a  slightly shorter man, but very heavy and with a head that was bald as a  billiard ball. The older man marched straight to the door, opened it and  went out without a second look back. The fat man looked around, his face  beaming in a wide smile, eyes almost closed behind fleshy lids.    [Illustration: The weird machine clicked and clattered while the twins  dreamed of tomorrow.]    "And now, who's next?" he asked.    The one who was about Muldoon's age stepped forward. The fat man  motioned for the other to precede him. The door closed. Not more than a  minute went by, and the door opened again and the same act as before  with the older man was gone through.    "And now, who's next?" the fat man asked.    Muldoon noted even the inflection was the same.    So it went with the three who were left, until it was Muldoon's turn.  And now there were six others beside himself also waiting to be  interviewed.    It was a squarish room, simply furnished, with a couple of desks set  side-by-side with a narrow space between them. A chair was set up  facing the desks, obviously meant for the one to be interviewed. Seated  behind one of the desks was the twin of the man now coming to seat  himself at the other desk. Their smiles were identical as they waited  for Muldoon to make himself comfortable. 
