 "Indeed there are. But no one will find it. It will be just another  rusted piece of large junk to them."    It was then Muldoon made his move. He lashed out with a fist. The blow  staggered Robert. And Muldoon was crashing his shoulder against the  inner door. It burst inward, but before he could get through Robert  grabbed him. The whole side of Muldoon's face went numb as Robert  crashed his fist against his jaw. Muldoon knew he didn't stand a chance  in a straight-up fight, not with these two. Robert's hands were reaching  for him, now.    Muldoon grabbed one of the hands with both of his, twisted outward as  he grasped two fingers in each hand. Robert's face went putty-grey as  the bones snapped. Muldoon no longer cared about fair play. His knee  came up where it could do most damage, and Robert sank grovelling to the  floor.    Muldoon whirled. Too late. The world exploded in a thousand flashes of  pain-filled lights. He went crashing backward into the wall. Evin hit  him again before he stumbled blindly away from the terrible fist.    "Let me kill him," Robert groaned.    Muldoon pulled himself up from the pain-filled world he had been sent  into. There seemed to be two Evins facing him. Then there was only one.  A twisted grin came to Muldoon's lips. "Come ahead, you rat," he  mumbled.    Evin came forward. And swift as an adder Muldoon kicked him just below  the knee cap. Evin screamed, and collapsed. Muldoon staggered out of the  way of the falling body, only to fall into the clutches of Robert's  sudden reaching fingers.    He fell to the floor.    Robert tried to get his good hand up to Muldoon's throat. Muldoon beat  at the thick face with both hands. But the other seemed not to feel the  pounding fists. Slowly the fingers managed to reach their goal. Muldoon  felt the darkness of death closing over him as his breath became a  tortured dying gasp. His hand found Robert's face, came gently over it  until his thumb pressed on one eyeball. And Robert screamed as the thumb 
