 Exmud R. Zmorro says thanks and leaves in quite a hurry. I snap off the  gadget and head for my rocket jeep, and fifteen seconds later I am  walking into the factory where a hundred citizens are already at work on  the inner spaceship. It is listing a little to port from the quake but  the head mech says it will be all straightened out in a few hours. It  is just a skeleton ship at the moment with the auger already in place  and the point about three feet into the ground.    D'Ambrosia Zahooli comes in and says he has been to see Commander  Bizmuth Aquinox. "He will give just enough of the atom pile for seventy  million miles," he says. "And only enough superhydrogenerated radium to  push us twenty million miles, Sep. I think we should write to Number  One. I explained to the space brass that we have got to come up again  after going down and have to reverse the blast tubes. It is radium we  have to have to make the return trip. I says a half a pound would do it.  You know what I think? I bet they don't believe we'll ever git back. And  was their laughs dirty!"    "Skeptics have lived since the beginnin' of time," I scoff. "They  laughed at Leonardo da Vinci, Columbus, Edison, a guy named Durante.  Even the guy who first sat down at a pianer. We will take what we can  git, pal, and then come back and laugh at them."    "I wish you was more convincin'," D'Ambrosia says. "I have  claustrophobia and would hate to git stuck in an over-sized fountain pen  halfway to the middle of this earth."    "Hand me those plans," I says sharply. "And stop scarin' me."    Three months later we have it made. Technicians come from four planets  to look at the Magnificent Mole. The area is alive with members of the  Interplanetary Press, the Cosmic News Bureau, and the Universe Feature  Service. Two perspiring citizens arrive and tear up two insurance  policies right in front of my eyes. An old buddy of mine in the war  against the Nougatines says he wants to go with me. His name is Axitope 
