core. Some of you think it is pretty hot inside like they had atomic  furnaces all fired up. Ha, the exterior ain't so hot either what with  taxes we have to pay after seven wars."_    _Professor Yzylch Mgogylvy, of the University of Juno, took violent  exception to Septimus Spink's derisive attitude and stoutly defended the  theory of adiabatic expansion. It was at this juncture that Spink  practically disintegrated the meeting._    _"For the last seventy years," he orated, "all we have thought about was  outer space. All that we have been hepped up about is what is up in the  attic and have forgot the cellar. What proof has any knucklehelmet got  that nobody lives far under the coal mines and the oil pockets?  Something lives everywhere! Adam never believed anythin' lived in water  until he was bit by a crab. Gentlemen, I am announcin' for the benefit  of the press and everybody from here to Mars and Jupiter and back that I  intend to explore inner space! I have already got the project  underway."_    _A near panic ensued as representatives of the press made for the  audio-viso stellartypes. "You think volcanoes are caused by heat  generated far down inside the earth. They are only boils or carbuncles.  Awright, where do earthquakes come from?" Here Spink laughed once more.  "They are elastic waves sent out through the body of the Earth, huh?  Their observed times of transmission give a means of finding their  velocities of propagation at great depths. I read that in a book that  should be in the Terra-firmament Institute along with the Spirit of St.  Louis."_    _Septimus Spink walked out at this point, surrounded by Interplanetary  scribes, one of whom was Exmud R. Zmorro. Spink informed the Fourteenth  Estate that he would let them have a gander at the model of his inner  space machine in due time. He inferred that one of his financial backers  in the fabulous enterprise was Aquintax Djupont, and that the fact that  Djupont had recently been brain-washed at the Neuropsychiatorium in  Metropolita had no bearing on the case whatsoever._    *       *       *       *       * 
