Interplanetary Press, the Cosmic News Bureau, and the Universe Feature  Service. Two perspiring citizens arrive and tear up two insurance  policies right in front of my eyes. An old buddy of mine in the war  against the Nougatines says he wants to go with me. His name is Axitope  Wurpz. He has been flying cargo between Earth and Parsnipia and says he  is quite unable to explain certain expense items in his book. A  Parsnipian D.A. is trying to serve him a subpoena.    "You are in, Axie," I says. "A crew of three is enough as that is about  all the oxygen we can store up. Meet D'Ambrosia Zahooli."    "Why is he wearing a mask?" Wurpz quips.    "You are as funny as a plutonium crutch," Zahooli says.    "No hard feelin's," Wurpz says, and takes a small flask out of his  pocket. "We will drink to Operation Earthworm."    As might have been expected, we run into some snags. The Euthanasia  Society serve us with papers as they maintain nobody can commit suicide  in the year 2022 without permission from the Board. Gulflex and other  oil companies protest to Number One as they say we might open up a hole  that will spill all the petroleum out of the earth all at once, so fast  they couldn't refine it. A spark could ignite it and set the globe on  fire like it was a brandied Christmas pudding. But then another  earthquake shakes Earth from the rice fields of China to the llamas in  Peru just when it looks as if we were about to be tossed into an outer  space pokey.    The seismologists get together and agree that they can't possibly figure  out the depth of the focus and state that the long waves have to pass  through the epicenter or some such spot underground. Anyway, all the  brass agrees that something is going on in inner space not according to  Hoyle or Euclid or anybody else and that we three characters might just  hit on something of scientific value.    The Magnificent Mole is built mostly of titanium, a metal which is only  about half as heavy as steel and twice as rugged. It is not quite as big 
