 Earthian merchant marines, and shooting guided missiles that will land  all over the U.S. They could have rays that would reach up over a  million miles and wash up space traffic.    Then we get another jolt. They bring us our chow and say it is angleworm  and hellgrammite porridge as that is what the Subterro denizens live on  mostly. There is a salad made out of what looks like skunk cabbage  leaves. We found out later that Hitler's brain trust had made an  artificial sun for the Subterrors and they had been given greens for the  first time and increased in size over a hundred per cent.    "We have got to escape," I says to my pals.    "That is easy," Zahooli sniffs. "First we have to break through the  walls here, get to the Mole which can't never move again, and then fight  off maybe six million creeps. We would git reduced to cinders by ray  Betsys the minute we hit the street."    I sigh deeply and reach into my knapsack. I find some lamb stew and  tapioca pudding capsules and split them with Zahooli and Wurpz. Then I  come up with a little box and glance at the label. It says, URGOXA'S  INSECT POWDER--Contains Radiatol.    I get up nonchalantly and call the guard to the barred window.  Beetlehead sticks his face in close and asks what I want. I empty some  of the powder into the palm of my hand and then blow it into his face.  The Subterro sentry's eyes cross. His face turns as pale as milk and he  collapses like a camp stool.    "Eureka!" I yelp. "We are in business, pals."    I hide the box of bug powder when I hear two other creeps come running.  They start yakking in Universa and in bug language both. Agrodyte  Hitler appears and looks in at us.    "What happened, Great One?" I ask very politely.    "We will perform an autopsy," Hitler's grandson says, and turns to  another beetlehead. "Open the door," he says. "I am showing my guests  something before we exterminate them. Too bad about Voklogoo. Most  likely a coronary entomothrombosis. Achtung! Raus mitt!" 
