I hide the box of bug powder when I hear two other creeps come running.  They start yakking in Universa and in bug language both. Agrodyte  Hitler appears and looks in at us.    "What happened, Great One?" I ask very politely.    "We will perform an autopsy," Hitler's grandson says, and turns to  another beetlehead. "Open the door," he says. "I am showing my guests  something before we exterminate them. Too bad about Voklogoo. Most  likely a coronary entomothrombosis. Achtung! Raus mitt!"    "It means get the lead out in old Germanic literature," I says to Wurpz  and Zahooli.    "It is curtains," D'Ambrosia gulps. "In about five minutes we will be  residue."    The Neofeuhrer is like all egomaniacs before him. He wants to brag. We  get into a Subterro Jetjeep and drive about twenty miles through the  underground countryside to the entrance to a cave guarded by some extra  tall Subterrors. Hitler the Third leads us into the spelunker's  nightmare and we finally come to a big metal door about eighty feet long  and twenty feet high.    Agrodyte pushes a button and the steel door lifts. Then we walk up a  flight of steps to the top of a dam and take a gander at a fleet of  submarines that makes Earthian pig-boats look like they belonged in  antique shops.    "We will take you for a ride in one," the dictator of Subterro says.  "After that I will turn you over to the executioner."    "We need lawyers," Wurpz says.    We cross a thin gangplank and enter the sub. The lights in it are  indirect and are purplish green. Hitler Number Three shows us the  telepathic machine, the radar, and the viso-screen that pictures  everything going on upstairs on Earth, and on Mars, Jupiter and all  other planets. There are four other beetleheads on the sub and they  carry disintegrators.    "These Subterro U-boats," our genial host brags, "can go as fast in  reverse as full speed ahead, as the situation warrants. They are alive  with guided missiles no larger than this flashlight I have here, but one  would blow up your Metropolita and leave hardly an ash." 
