not escape, hah? Come, we go to the museum."    We do. In a glass case is an antique U-boat. "I can't believe it," I  says to Zahooli.    "Neither do I. We never took off. They have us locked up in the booby  hatch in Metropolita. We went nuts."    "He escaped in a submarine, bringing three of Nazi Germany's smartest  scientists with him. He brought plans showing us he could split the  atom. He brought working models." The creep laughs mockingly. "We have  certain elements down here also. Puranium, better than your uranium.  And pitchblende Plus Nine. It will power our fleet of submarines that  will conquer Earth. It is nearly der tag! We will leave through the  underground river that our benefactor found three miles below the  surface of the ocean near Brazil. It spirals down through this earth and  empties into Lake Schicklegruber eighty miles from here."    "And Hitler took one of those Subterro dames as a mate, huh," I says.  "It figures. He was not human himself."    I get another cuffing around but I am too punchy already to feel  anything. The next thing I know I am in the Subterro clink with Wurpz  and Zahooli. D'Ambrosia says maybe we will get released from the strait  jackets soon and get shock treatments and find ourselves back in  Metropolita in our favorite night spot.    "We have to be dreamin' this," I keep telling myself. The guard looks in  at us and he has little slanting eyes.    "How did Jap beetles get here?" I ask Wurpz. I shiver. I think of all  the Subterro subs pouring out of a hole under Brazil and sinking all  Earthian merchant marines, and shooting guided missiles that will land  all over the U.S. They could have rays that would reach up over a  million miles and wash up space traffic.    Then we get another jolt. They bring us our chow and say it is angleworm  and hellgrammite porridge as that is what the Subterro denizens live on  mostly. There is a salad made out of what looks like skunk cabbage  leaves. We found out later that Hitler's brain trust had made an 
