creation in such circumstances.    And now at last it was my turn.  The great urn, blazing golden, through  its rosy covering, was in front, and all eyes on me.  I clapped a  sunburnt hand upon its top as though I would take all remaining in it  to myself and stared round at that company--only her herself I durst  not look at!  Then, with a beating heart, I lifted a corner of the web  and slipped my hand into the dark inside, muttering to myself as I did  so, "A golden pool, and a silver fish, and a line no thicker than a  hair." I touched in turn twenty perplexing tablets and was no whit the  wiser, and felt about the sides yet came to nothing, groping here and  there with a rising despair, until as my fingers, still damp and fine  of touch, went round the sides a second time, yes! there was something,  something in the hollow of the fluting, a thought, a thread, and yet  enough.  I took it unseen, lifting it with infinite forbearance, and  the end was weighted, the other tablets slipped and rattled as from  their midst, hanging to that one fine virgin hair, up came a pearly  billet.  I doubted no longer, but snapped the thread, and showed the  tablet, heard Heru's name, read from it amongst the soft applause of  that luxurious company with all the unconcern I could muster.    There she was in a moment, lip to lip with me, before them all, her  eyes more than ever like planets from her native skies, and only the  quick heave of her bosom, slowly subsiding like a ground swell after a  storm, remaining to tell that even Martian blood could sometimes beat  quicker than usual!  She sat down in her place by me in the simplest  way, and soon everything was as merry as could be.  The main meal came  on now, and as far as I could see those Martian gallants had extremely  good appetites, though they drank at first but little, wisely  remembering the strength of their wines.  As for me, I ate of fishes  that never swam in earthly seas, and of strange fowl that never flapped 
