  How high, how high  Oh, ho, oh,  Oh, ho, oh.    the which was infinitely sleep-provoking if not a refrain of a high  intellectual order.    I shut my eyes as we pulled away from the wharfs of that nameless  emporium and picked a passage through a crowd of quaint shipping,  wondering where I was, and asking myself whether I was mentally rising  equal to my extraordinary surroundings, whether I adequately  appreciated the immensity of my remove from those other seas on which I  had last travelled, tiller-ropes in hand, piloting a captain's galley  from a wharf. Good heavens, what would my comrades on my ship say if  they could see me now steering a load of hairy savages up one of those  waterways which our biggest telescopes magnify but to the thickness of  an indication? No, I was not rising equal to the occasion, and could  not.  The human mind is of but limited capacity after all, and such  freaks of fortune are beyond its conception.  I knew I was where I was,  but I knew I should probably never get the chance of telling of it, and  that no one would ever believe me if I did, and I resigned myself to  the inevitable with sullen acquiescence, smothering the wonder that  might have been overwhelming in passing interests of the moment.    There is little to record of that voyage.  We passed through a fleet of  Ar-hap's warships, empty and at anchor in double line, serviceable  half-decked cutters, built of solid timber, not pumpkin rind it was  pleasant to notice, and then the town dropped away as we proceeded up a  stream about as broad as the Hudson at its widest, and profusely  studded with islands.  This water was bitterly salt and joined another  sea on the other side of the Martian continent.  Yet it had a  pronounced flow against us eastward, this tide running for three spring  months and being followed, I learned, as ocean temperatures varied, by  a flow in the opposite direction throughout the summer.    Just at present the current was so strong eastwards, the moisture 
