"What is all that talking about?" growled a sleepy voice of authority  from the stern.    "Bow man, sir, says he can see a boat."    "And what does it matter if he can?  Are we to delay every time that  lazy ruffian spying a shadow makes it an excuse to stop to yawn and  scratch? Go on, you plankful of lubbers, or I'll give you something  worth thinking about!"  And joyfully, oh, so joyfully, we heard the  sullen dip of oars commence again.    Nothing more happened after that till the sun at length shone on the  little harbour town at the estuary mouth, making the masts of fishing  craft clustering there like a golden reed-bed against the cool, clean  blue of the sea beyond.    Right glad we were to see it, and keeping now in shadow of the banks,  made all haste while light was faint and mist hung about to reach the  town, finally pushing through the boats and gaining a safe hiding-place  without hostile notice before it was clear daylight.    Covering Heru up and knowing well all our chances of escape lay in  expedition, I went at once, in pursuance of a plan made during the  night, to the good dame at what, for lack of a better name, must still  continue to be called the fish-shop, and finding her alone, frankly  told her the salient points of my story.  When she learned I had  "robbed the lion of his prey" and taken his new wife singlehanded from  the dreaded Ar-hap her astonishment was unbounded.  Nothing would do  but she must look upon the princess, so back we went to the  hiding-place, and when Heru knew that on this woman depended our lives  she stepped ashore, taking the rugged Martian hand in her dainty  fingers and begging her help so sweetly that my own heart was moved,  and, thrusting hands in pocket, I went aside, leaving those two to  settle it in their own female way.    And when I looked back in five minutes, royal Seth had her arms round  the woman's neck, kissing the homely cheeks with more than imperial  fervour, so I knew all was well thus far, and stopped expectorating at 
