  The answer to that was--Negu Mah would not let her leave Callisto. The  journey to earth, he logically argued, was still one containing a large  element of danger. There was no reason for her to visit any other  planet, and law and custom required that she look after their home  while he himself was away on business.    In this he was unshakeable. There was a stern and unyielding side to  him, inherited perhaps from his Eastern ancestors, that left Nanlo  shaken and frightened when it appeared. She had seen it the one time  she had seriously gone into a tantrum in an effort to make him let her  take a trip to earth. It had so startled and terrified her that she had  never used those tactics again.    But now, as she wheeled away the molkai decanter and left Negu Mah and  Sliss to themselves, joy and exultation was singing in her. Doubly. For  she was going to run away from Negu Mah, run away with the man she  loved, and in their flight they were going to steal the Vulcan. Thus  Negu Mah would be doubly punished. He would be hurt in his pride and in  his pocketbook. And all through the Jupiter and Saturn systems, where  his wealth, his position, and his beautiful wife were openly envied, he  would be laughed at and derided.    Humming lightly under her breath, Nanlo put the molkai decanter away in  a little pantry and hurried on to her own apartment. Molkai was a  powerful, though non-habit-forming drink. Under its influence one  became talkative, but disinclined to movement. Sliss and her husband  would remain as they were for hours, leaving her free to do as she  would. The servants were asleep in another part of the building, and  there was no one to note as she changed her clothes swiftly for a  light, warm travelling suit, caught up two small bags, one holding her  personal things, the other her jewels, and let herself out through her  own private entrance into the darkness of the rear gardens.    Where in the shadows the tall, blonde young engineer, Hugh Neils, was  waiting for her....   
