 level of the microscope, finding cures for almost every disease the  flesh of man was heir to, there was one ailment it had not yet  conquered--poverty.    Nanlo's father had been a rocket port attendant. Once he had been a  pilot, but a crash had crippled him for life. Thereafter, his wages had  been quite insufficient to sustain him, his brood of half a dozen  children, and their hard-working mother.    But Nanlo, growing up, had developed into a mature beauty that rivaled  the exotic loveliness of the wild orchids of Io. And in debarking at  the rocket port on a business trip to earth, because hurricanes had  forced him to land far south of New York, Negu Mah had seen her.    Thereafter--But that is a story as ancient as history too.    It was a truth Nanlo conveniently overlooked now that she had not been  unwilling to be Negu Mah's bride. It was true she had driven a sharp  bargain with him--her father's debts paid, and sufficient more to ease  her parents' life and educate her brothers and sisters. Plus a marriage  settlement for herself, and a sum in escrow in the Earth Union bank,  should she ever divorce him for cruelty or mistreatment. But that had  been only innate shrewdness. She would still have married him had he  refused her demands for her family. For his wealth fascinated her, and  the prospect of being a virtual queen, even of a distant outpost colony  such as that on Callisto, appealed to her.    And she had thought that she was taking little risk, for if she were  dissatisfied, the law these days was very lenient toward unhappy  marital relationships. It required only definite proof of misconduct,  mistreatment, or oppression of any kind to win freedom from an unwanted  partner. Nanlo had been confident that after a year or two she would be  able to shake free of the bonds uniting her to Negu Mah and take flight  for herself into a world made vastly more pleasant by the marriage  settlement remaining to her.    But now she had been married, and had lived on Callisto, for a full  five years, and her tolerance of Negu Mah had long since turned to 
