  The ship was the cargo rocket Vulcan, newest and swiftest of Negu Mah's  freighter fleet. Fully fueled and provisioned, storage space jammed  with refrigerated foods that in space the cold of the encompassing void  would keep perfectly for generations were it necessary, she would take  off in the morning from the close-by landing port for Jupiter's other  satellites, then go on to the Saturnian system, returning finally with  full holds of uranium for Negu Mah's refineries on Callisto.    She was a beautiful craft, the Vulcan, and one man could manage her,  though her normal crew was seven. She had cost a great sum. But Negu  Mah was wealthy.    Nanlo's face, sylph-like in its beauty, hardened. Negu Mah was wealthy  indeed. Had he not bought her, and had she not cost him more, much  more, than the Vulcan?    But no, it was not quite accurate to say that Negu Mah had bought her.  However, since time immemorial beautiful daughters had been, if not  sold, yet urged into marriages to wealthy men for the benefit of their  impoverished families. And though science had made great strides,  conquering the realms of the telescope and invading those below the  level of the microscope, finding cures for almost every disease the  flesh of man was heir to, there was one ailment it had not yet  conquered--poverty.    Nanlo's father had been a rocket port attendant. Once he had been a  pilot, but a crash had crippled him for life. Thereafter, his wages had  been quite insufficient to sustain him, his brood of half a dozen  children, and their hard-working mother.    But Nanlo, growing up, had developed into a mature beauty that rivaled  the exotic loveliness of the wild orchids of Io. And in debarking at  the rocket port on a business trip to earth, because hurricanes had  forced him to land far south of New York, Negu Mah had seen her.    Thereafter--But that is a story as ancient as history too.    It was a truth Nanlo conveniently overlooked now that she had not been  unwilling to be Negu Mah's bride. It was true she had driven a sharp  
