 the flame-like Jupiter light touched the tops of the neklo trees above  them with a ruddy light which brought faint glimmerings from the  radioactive leaves.    Hugh Neils was a recent college graduate whom Negu Mah had hired as an  assistant supervisor in the refining mills on Callisto, where the  precious uranium 235 was separated from the ordinary metal. It was not  a desirable job, but the best Hugh Neils could get. His college record  of reckless scrapes and entanglements with women had been against him.  Indeed, this position had only come to him because his home was in the  same section as Nanlo's, and Negu Mah had thought that perhaps his  company on occasion would help alleviate Nanlo's restlessness.    It had--but to an extent Negu Mah had not foreseen.    "In less than a quarter of an hour, Nanlo my darling," Hugh Neils  whispered now, "we'll be gone from here, and you'll belong only to me.  We'll leave this infernal barren satellite to spin itself dizzy out  here in no place. We'll leave that humpty-dumpty husband of yours and  his hypocritical good-nature to whistle for his wife and his ship. We  won't care. We'll be together, always together from now on, and he'll  never see us again."    Nanlo leaned against his shoulder, the prospect that he painted seemed  very sweet to her.    "You're sure you can manage the ship alone?" she asked. "But of course,  I can help, a little anyway. You can teach me."    "Of course," Hugh Neils answered confidently, and bent to kiss her  again. "I've been studying her for a week, asking questions, making  friends with the crew. I can handle her one-handed. We'll take off and  circle Jupiter first. They may think we landed on the other side, in  the Outlaw Crevice. Or they may figure that we went on to Saturn, and  will hide somewhere in the system there.    "But we won't do either, and they won't know where to look for us.  Instead of turning back on the other side of Jupiter, we'll make a  tangential angle out into space. We'll hold it for a month, for  safety's sake. We could hold for fifty years, or a hundred, if we 
