shall have what they ask for.    "As the man, Hugh Neils, said, there is fuel and food in the holds of  the Vulcan to run the motors and last the lifetime of a man--or a man  and a woman. Indeed, two lifetimes, or three, for I was aware of their  plans, and secretly I placed aboard the craft many additional supplies.  Fuel, and food, and books, and tools. And one additional thing the two  who flee now there in space have not counted upon.    "Into the controls of the Vulcan one of my engineers has placed a small  device. After two hundred hours, or when they are well beyond Jupiter,  this device will swing the Vulcan straight toward Proxima Centauri, the  nearest star. In that position the controls will lock. And for twenty  years, a generation, it will be impossible either to alter the course  of the Vulcan or to shut her blast motors off.    "At the end of that time the last tank of reserve fuel will be  exhausted, and they will cease automatically. Then once more the Vulcan  may be controlled by those aboard. They may switch the motors onto the  tanks of fuel in the cargo holds, and continue onwards. If they were  celestial navigators, they might try to turn, and seek earth again. But  they are not navigators, and the sun will be but a tiny spark in the  limitless darkness, one with a million others, not to be told apart.  They will know that only Proxima Centauri in all space may the Vulcan  hope to reach in their lifetime, or perhaps even in that of their  descendants, for a message to that effect they will find presently.    "So it may be that they will continue onward of their own choice. If  they make no choice, momentum will carry them onward, perhaps forever.    "But in any case, Nanlo and Hugh Neils will have exactly what they have  asked for--each other, for all eternity. If truly that was what they  wanted, a great destiny may be theirs. A lifetime of travel can bring  them to the stars. They or their descendants can be the first humans to  bridge the gap of nothingness that has thus far daunted the stoutest 
