   Negu Mah silently turned back into the house. Sliss shuffled after him.  The uranium merchant led the way back to the vitrite covered garden and  there, a little wearily, resumed his seat and picked up his mug again.  Sliss climbed back into his tub of water, sighed gratefully at the  comfort it gave him, and then turned his pop-eyes toward his host. He  blinked once, inquiringly, and Negu Mah understood that the intelligent  amphibian was asking if he intended to do nothing to stop the pair who  were running away.    Negu Mah sipped pensively at his drink.    "If she had only told me," he murmured. "If she had only come to me and  said she desired her freedom. If they had only both come together and  faced me, saying that though it meant giving up all they had, they  wanted only each other! I would have been generous. I would have been  indulgent. But they did not. They had not the courage. They were afraid  of me. And they hated me."    Negu Mah was silent for a moment. Both he and his guest stared toward  the graceful shaft of the Vulcan, now fully silhouetted against the  whole tremendous bulk of Jupiter, sitting like a titanic scarlet egg  upon the horizon of Callisto. The Jupiter light flooded the vitrite  garden, gave the plants there, chosen with an eye to this, strange,  exotic, glowing colors, flushed Negu Mah and Sliss with a ruby  radiance.    Towards that dark, waiting craft the two they had watched were even now  stealing, tense with the weight of their daring and their crime. In a  moment they would reach her, enter her, actuate machinery that was  miraculous in its complex simplicity, and be gone then on the wings it  gave them into the concealing embrace of universal space.    "You see, my friend Sliss," Negu Mah said finally, "Nanlo is beautiful,  but there is nothing within. Her beauty deceived me. I thought that  where such loveliness existed, there must be a soul to animate it. I  was wrong. She is like an imitation gem--beautiful on the surface,  paste within. Yet the mistake was mine, and I did not blame her. I 
