 the sky.    With her leap, she seemed to suck the radiance along. It became a great  cone of glowing light that, arrow-like, raced away upward. For a long  instant the black length of the ship, and the greenish fan of flame,  were outlined against the scarlet background of Jupiter. Then the  freighter rocket, flinging herself upward at three gravities or better,  passed the edge of the planet and vanished.    Negu Mah sat very quiet for some moments. But at last he stirred again.  Sliss' eyes turned toward him, immobile.    "Sometimes love transforms the weak," the uranium merchant said slowly.  "Like fire giving temper to soft metal. Sometimes a mutual love will  endure for all eternity, and the two who share it will gain from it a  soul they did not have before. Nanlo and Hugh Neils have this chance.  Both said they wanted only the other, and their love, for all eternity.  To gain this, both were willing to cheat, to steal, to dishonor me and  themselves.    "So, Sliss, my understanding friend, they have paid the price, they  shall have what they ask for.    "As the man, Hugh Neils, said, there is fuel and food in the holds of  the Vulcan to run the motors and last the lifetime of a man--or a man  and a woman. Indeed, two lifetimes, or three, for I was aware of their  plans, and secretly I placed aboard the craft many additional supplies.  Fuel, and food, and books, and tools. And one additional thing the two  who flee now there in space have not counted upon.    "Into the controls of the Vulcan one of my engineers has placed a small  device. After two hundred hours, or when they are well beyond Jupiter,  this device will swing the Vulcan straight toward Proxima Centauri, the  nearest star. In that position the controls will lock. And for twenty  years, a generation, it will be impossible either to alter the course  of the Vulcan or to shut her blast motors off.    "At the end of that time the last tank of reserve fuel will be  exhausted, and they will cease automatically. Then once more the Vulcan 
