day.)    The final result of our work looks pretty small. Twenty-three  "Personal Background Sets"--a few letters, a diary in some, an  assortment of artifacts. Whoever stocked this ship we are on supplied  wood, of the half-dozen kinds that have been taken wherever men have  gone; stocks of a few plastics--known at the time of the Exodus, or  easily developed from those known, and not associated with any  particular planet. Also books on Design, a Form-writer for translating  drawings into materials, and so on. Someone put in a lot of work  before this voyage began.    Most of the time it is like being back on Russet doing a group  Project. What we are working on has no more and no less reality than  that. Our work is all read into a computer and checked against  everybody else's. At first we keep clashing. Gradually a consistent  picture builds up and gets translated finally into the Personal  Background Kits. The Lost Kafoozalum start to exist like people in a  History book.    Fifteen days hard work and we have just about finished; then we  reach--call it Planet Gilgamesh.    I wake in my bunk to hear that there will be brief cessation of  weight; strap down, please.    We are coming off Mass-Time to go on planetary drive.    Colonel Delano-Smith is in charge of operations on the planet, with  Ram and Peter to assist. None of the rest of us see the melting out of  fifty years' accumulation of ice, the pumping away of the water, the  fitting and testing of the holds for the grappling-beams. We stay  inside the ship, on five-eighths gee which we do not have time to get  used to, and try to work, and discard the results before the computer  can do so. There is hardly any work left to do, anyway.    It takes nearly twelve hours to get the ship free, and caulked, and  ready to lift. (Her hull has to be patched because of Mr. Yardo's  operations which make use of several sorts of vapors). Then there is a  queer blind period with Up now one way, now another, and sudden jerks  
