165OE, 7320S, on Planet Incognita, approximately one hour before  midnight local time.    "Going on planetary drive as close as that will indicate that  something is badly wrong to begin with.    "Two. This ship will descend, coupled to _Gilgamesh_ as at present, to  a point seventy miles above the planetary surface. It will then  uncouple, discharge one hopper, and go back on Mass-Time. Estimated  time for this stage of descent forty minutes.    "Three. The hopper will then descend on its own engines at the maximum  speed allowed by the heat-disposal system; estimated at thirty-seven  minutes. _Gilgamesh_ will complete descent in thirty-three minutes.  Engines of _Gilgamesh_ will not be used except for the heat-disposal  and gyro auxiliaries. The following installations have been made to  allow for the control of the descent; a ring of eight rockets in  peltathene mounts around the tail and, and one outsize antigrav unit  inside the nose. "Sympathizer" controls hooked up with a visiscreen  and a computer have also been installed in the nose.    "Four. _Gilgamesh_ will carry one man only. The hopper will carry a  crew of three. The pilot of _Gilgamesh_ will establish the ship on the  edge of the cliff, supported on antigrav a foot or so above the ground  and leaning towards the sea at an angle of approximately 20° with the  vertical. Except for this landing will be automatic.    "Five."    The colonel's voice has lulled us into passive acceptance; now we are  jerked into sharper attention by the faintest possible check in it.    "The greatest danger attaching to the expedition is that the  Incognitans may discover that the crash has been faked. This would be  inevitable if they were to capture (a) the hopper; (b) any of the new  installations in Gilgamesh, especially the antigrav; (c) any member of  the crew.    "The function of the hopper is to pick up the pilot of _Gilgamesh_ and  also to check that ground appearances are consistent. If not, they  will produce a landslip on the cliff edge, using power tools and  explosives carried for the purpose. That is why the hopper has a crew  of three, but the chance of their having to do this is slight." 
