  Presently we are all congregated at one end of the table as before,  except that Mr. Yardo is now sitting between B and me; when M'Clare  and the colonel come in he firmly stays where he is evidently  considering himself One of Us now.    "The proposition," says M'Clare, "is that we intend to take  _Gilgamesh_ to Incognita and land her there in such a way as to  suggest that she crashed. In the absence of evidence to the contrary  the Incognitans are bound to assume that that was her intended  destination, and the presence of weapons, even disarmed, will suggest  that her mission was aggressive. Firstly, can anyone suggest a better  course of action? or does anyone object to this one?"    We all look at Lennie who sticks his hands in his pockets and mutters  "No."    Kirsty gives her little cough and says there is a point which has not  been mentioned.    If a heavily-armed ship crashes on Incognita, will not the government  of the hemisphere in which it crashes be presented with new ideas for  offensive weapons? And won't this make it _more_ likely that they will  start aggression? And won't the fear of this make the other hemisphere  even more likely to try and get in first before the new weapons are  complete?    Hell, I ought to have thought of that.    From the glance of unwilling respect which the colonel bestows on  M'Clare it is plain these points have been dealt with.    "The weapons on Gilgamesh were disarmed when she was rediscovered," he  says. "Essential sections were removed. The Incognitans won't be able  to reconstruct how they worked."    _Another_ fact for which we shall have to provide an explanation. Well  how about this: The early explorers sent out by these people--the  people in Gilgamesh ... oh, use Cray's word and call them Lost  Kafoozalum anyway their ships were armed, but they never found any  enemies and the Idealists of B's story refused even to carry arms any  more.    (Which is just about what happened when the Terries set out to  rediscover the colonies, after all.) 
