  [Illustration]    "Tell me," said the Industrialist, "what do these friends from space  want in return?"    The Astronomer hesitated. He said, "I will be truthful with you. They  come from a denser planet. Ours is richer in the lighter atoms."    "They want magnesium? Aluminum?"    "No, sir. Carbon and hydrogen. They want coal and oil."    "Really?"    The Astronomer said, quickly, "You are going to ask why creatures who  have mastered space travel, and therefore atomic power, would want coal  and oil. I can't answer that."    The Industrialist smiled. "But I can. This is the best evidence yet of  the truth of your story. Superficially, atomic power would seem to  preclude the use of coal and oil. However, quite apart from the energy  gained by their combustion they remain, and always will remain, the  basic raw material for all organic chemistry. Plastics, dyes,  pharmaceuticals, solvents. Industry could not exist without them, even  in an atomic age. Still, if coal and oil are the low price for which  they would sell us the troubles and tortures of racial youth, my answer  is that the commodity would be dear if offered gratis."    The Astronomer sighed and said, "There are the boys!"    They were visible through the open window, standing together in the  grassy field and lost in animated conversation. The Industrialist's son  pointed imperiously and the Astronomer's son nodded and made off at a  run toward the house.    The Industrialist said, "There is the Youth you speak of. Our race has  as much of it as it ever had."    "Yes, but we age them quickly and pour them into the mold."    Slim scuttled into the room, the door banging behind him.    The Astronomer said, in mild disapproval, "What's this?"    Slim looked up in surprise and came to a halt. "I beg your pardon. I  didn't know anyone was here. I am sorry to have interrupted." His  enunciation was almost painfully precise.    The Industrialist said, "It's all right, youngster."    But the Astronomer said, "Even if you had been entering an empty room, 
