  "Inhabited?"    "Well, no."    "Why, you could drop your planet into that large ocean and drown it."    The Explorer smiled. It was a gentle dig at his Arcturian homeland,  which was smaller than most planets. He said, "Not quite."    The Merchant followed along the line of his thoughts. "And the  inhabitants are large in proportion to their world?" He sounded as  though the news struck him less favorably now.    "Nearly ten times our height."    "Are you sure they are friendly?"    "That is hard to say. Friendship between alien intelligences is an  imponderable. They are not dangerous, I think. We've come across other  groups that could not maintain equilibrium after the atomic war stage  and you know the results. Introversion. Retreat. Gradual decadence and  increasing gentleness."    "Even if they are such monsters?"    "The principle remains."    It was about then that the Explorer felt the heavy throbbing of the  engines.    He frowned and said, "We are descending a bit too quickly."    There had been some speculation on the dangers of landing some hours  before. The planetary target was a huge one for an oxygen-water world.  Though it lacked the size of the uninhabitable hydrogen-ammonia planets  and its low density made its surface gravity fairly normal, its  gravitational forces fell off but slowly with distance. In short, its  gravitational potential was high and the ship's Calculator was a  run-of-the-mill model not designed to plot landing trajectories at that  potential range. That meant the Pilot would have to use manual controls.    It would have been wiser to install a more high-powered model, but that  would have meant a trip to some outpost of civilization; lost time;  perhaps a lost secret. The Merchant demanded an immediate landing.    The Merchant felt it necessary to defend his position now. He said  angrily to the Explorer, "Don't you think the Pilot knows his job? He  landed you safely twice before."    Yes, thought the Explorer, in a scout-ship, not in this unmaneuverable  freighter. Aloud, he said nothing.    He kept his eye on the visi-plate. They were descending too quickly. 
