The Industrialist said, "It's the workmanship that gets me. I never saw  such construction."    "What good is it now?" said the Astronomer, bitterly. "There's nothing  left. There'll be no second landing. This ship detected life on our  planet through accident. Other exploring parties would come no closer  than necessary to establish the fact that there were no super-dense  worlds existing in our solar system."    "Well, there's no quarreling with a crash landing."    "The ship hardly seems damaged. If only some had survived, the ship  might have been repaired."    "If they had survived, there would be no trade in any case. They're too  different. Too disturbing. In any case--it's over."    They entered the house and the Industrialist greeted his wife calmly.  "Lunch about ready, dear."    "I'm afraid not. You see--" She looked hesitantly at the Astronomer.    "Is anything wrong?" asked the Industrialist. "Why not tell me? I'm sure  our guest won't mind a little family discussion."    "Pray don't pay any attention whatever to me," muttered the Astronomer.  He moved miserably to the other end of the living room.    The woman said, in low, hurried tones, "Really, dear, cook's that upset.  I've been soothing her for hours and honestly, I don't know why Red  should have done it."    "Done what?" The Industrialist was more amused than otherwise. It had  taken the united efforts of himself and his son months to argue his wife  into using the name "Red" rather than the perfectly ridiculous (viewed  youngster fashion) name which was his real one.    She said, "He's taken most of the chopped meat."    "He's eaten it?"    "Well, I hope not. It was raw."    "Then what would he want it for?"    "I haven't the slightest idea. I haven't seen him since breakfast.  Meanwhile cook's just furious. She caught him vanishing out the kitchen  door and there was the bowl of chopped meat just about empty and she was  going to use it for lunch. Well, you know cook. She had to change the  lunch menu and that means she won't be worth living with for a week. 
