  The Industrialist considered that. "What it amounts to is that these  creatures from space are asteroid-dwellers."    "No, no. The asteroids are something else again. They occur, I was told,  in one out of eight stellar systems, but they're completely different  from what we've been discussing."    "And how does your being an astronomer change the fact that you are  still only quoting their unsupported statements?"    "But they did not restrict themselves to bald items of information. They  presented me with a theory of stellar evolution which I had to accept  and which is more nearly valid than anything our own astronomy has ever  been able to devise, if we except possible lost theories dating from  Beforethewars. Mind you, their theory had a rigidly mathematical  development and it predicted just such a Galaxy as they describe. So you  see, they have all the worlds they wish. They are not land-hungry.  Certainly not for our land."    "Reason would say so, if what you say is true. But creatures may be  intelligent and not reasonable. Our forefathers were presumably  intelligent, yet they were certainly not reasonable. Was it reasonable  to destroy almost all their tremendous civilization in atomic warfare  over causes our historians can no longer accurately determine?" The  Industrialist brooded over it. "From the dropping of the first atom bomb  over those islands--I forget the ancient name--there was only one end in  sight, and in plain sight. Yet events were allowed to proceed to that  end."    He looked up, said briskly, "Well, where are we? I wonder if we are not  on a fool's errand after all."    But the Astronomer was a little in advance and his voice came thickly.  "No fool's errand, sir. Look there."      VI    Red and Slim had trailed their elders with the experience of youth,  aided by the absorption and anxiety of their fathers. Their view of the  final object of the search was somewhat obscured by the underbrush  behind which they remained.    Red said, "Holy Smokes. Look at that. It's all shiny silver or  something."    But it was Slim who was really excited. He caught at the other. "I know 
