"But why go on? People who talk English, drink beer, like jokes and beat  me at chess or table-tennis are people for my money, even if they look  like tigers in trousers.    "It was funny the way they won all the time at table tennis. They  certainly weren't so hot at it. Maybe that ten per cent extra gravity  put us off our strokes. As for chess, Svendlov was our champion. He won  sometimes. The rest of us seemed to lose whichever Chingsi we played.  There again it wasn't so much that they were good. How could they be, in  the time? It was more that we all seemed to make silly mistakes when we  played them and that's fatal in chess. Of course it's a screwy  situation, playing chess with something that grows its own fur coat, has  yellow eyes an inch and a half long and long white whiskers. Could _you_  have kept your mind on the game?    "And don't think I fell victim to their feline charm. The children were  pets, but you didn't feel like patting the adults on their big grinning  heads. Personally I didn't like the one I knew best. He was  called--well, we called him Charley, and he was the ethnologist,  ambassador, contact man, or whatever you like to call him, who came back  with us. Why I disliked him was because he was always trying to get the  edge on you. All the time he had to be top. Great sense of humor, of  course. I nearly broke my neck on that butter-slide he fixed up in the  metal alleyway to the _Whale's_ engine room. Charley laughed fit to  bust, everyone laughed, I even laughed myself though doing it hurt  me more than the tumble had. Yes, life and soul of the party, old  Charley ...    "My last sight of the _Minnow_ was a cabin full of dead and dying men,  the sweetish stink of burned flesh and the choking reek of scorching  insulation, the boat jolting and shuddering and beginning to break up,  and in the middle of the flames, still unhurt, was Charley. He was  laughing ...    "My God, it's dark out here. Wonder how high I am. Must be all of fifty 
