seem to be floating. Let's switch on the radio and tell the world hello.  Hello, earth ... hello, again ... and good-by ...    "Sorry about that. I passed out. I don't know what I said, if anything,  and the suit recorder has no playback or eraser. What must have happened  is that the suit ran out of oxygen, and I lost consciousness due to  anoxia. I dreamed I switched on the radio, but I actually switched on  the emergency tank, thank the Lord, and that brought me round.    "Come to think of it, why not crack the suit and breath fresh air  instead of bottled?    "No. I'd have to get up to do that. I think I'll just lie here a little  bit longer and get properly rested up before I try anything big like  standing up.    "I was telling about the return journey, wasn't I? The long jump back  home, which should have dumped us between the orbits of Earth and Mars.  Instead of which, when James took his finger off the button, the  mass-detector showed nothing except the noise-level of the universe.    "We were out in that no place for a day. We astronomers had to establish  our exact position relative to the solar system. The crew had to find  out exactly what went wrong. The physicists had to make mystic passes in  front of meters and mutter about residual folds in stress-free space.  Our task was easy, because we were about half a light-year from the sun.  The crew's job was also easy: they found what went wrong in less than  half an hour.    "It still seems incredible. To program the ship for a star-jump, you  merely told it where you were and where you wanted to go. In practical  terms, that entailed first a series of exact measurements which had to  be translated into the somewhat abstruse co-ordinate system we used  based on the topological order of mass-points in the galaxy. Then you  cut a tape on the computer and hit the button. Nothing was wrong with  the computer. Nothing was wrong with the engines. We'd hit the right  button and we'd gone to the place we'd aimed for. All we'd done was aim 
