  "I'm shocked all right. I never said who I was. Matt Hennessy, from  Farside Observatory, back of the Moon, just back from a proving flight  _cum_ astronomical survey in the starship _Whale_. Whoever you are who  finds this tape, you're made. Take it to any radio station or newspaper  office. You'll find you can name your price and don't take any wooden  nickels.    "Where had I got to? I'd told you how we happened to find Chang, hadn't  I? That's what the natives called it. Walking, talking natives on a blue  sky planet with 1.1 g gravity and a twenty per cent oxygen atmosphere at  fifteen p.s.i. The odds against finding Chang on a six-sun survey on the  first star jump ever must be up in the googols. We certainly were lucky.    "The Chang natives aren't very technical--haven't got space travel for  instance. They're good astronomers, though. We were able to show them  our sun, in their telescopes. In their way, they're a highly civilized  people. Look more like cats than people, but they're people all right.  If you doubt it, chew these facts over.    "One, they learned our language in four weeks. When I say they, I mean a  ten-man team of them.    "Two, they brew a near-beer that's a lot nearer than the canned stuff we  had aboard the _Whale_.    "Three, they've a great sense of humor. Ran rather to silly practical  jokes, but still. Can't say I care for that hot-foot and belly-laugh  stuff myself, but tastes differ.    "Four, the ten-man language team also learned chess and table tennis.    "But why go on? People who talk English, drink beer, like jokes and beat  me at chess or table-tennis are people for my money, even if they look  like tigers in trousers.    "It was funny the way they won all the time at table tennis. They  certainly weren't so hot at it. Maybe that ten per cent extra gravity  put us off our strokes. As for chess, Svendlov was our champion. He won  sometimes. The rest of us seemed to lose whichever Chingsi we played.  There again it wasn't so much that they were good. How could they be, in 
