"I was telling about the return journey, wasn't I? The long jump back  home, which should have dumped us between the orbits of Earth and Mars.  Instead of which, when James took his finger off the button, the  mass-detector showed nothing except the noise-level of the universe.    "We were out in that no place for a day. We astronomers had to establish  our exact position relative to the solar system. The crew had to find  out exactly what went wrong. The physicists had to make mystic passes in  front of meters and mutter about residual folds in stress-free space.  Our task was easy, because we were about half a light-year from the sun.  The crew's job was also easy: they found what went wrong in less than  half an hour.    "It still seems incredible. To program the ship for a star-jump, you  merely told it where you were and where you wanted to go. In practical  terms, that entailed first a series of exact measurements which had to  be translated into the somewhat abstruse co-ordinate system we used  based on the topological order of mass-points in the galaxy. Then you  cut a tape on the computer and hit the button. Nothing was wrong with  the computer. Nothing was wrong with the engines. We'd hit the right  button and we'd gone to the place we'd aimed for. All we'd done was aim  for the wrong place. It hurts me to tell you this and I'm just attached  personnel with no space-flight tradition. In practical terms, one highly  trained crew member had punched a wrong pattern of holes on the tape.  Another equally skilled had failed to notice this when reading back. A  childish error, highly improbable; twice repeated, thus squaring the  improbability. Incredible, but that's what happened.    "Anyway, we took good care with the next lot of measurements. That's why  we were out there so long. They were cross-checked about five times. I  got sick so I climbed into a spacesuit and went outside and took some  photographs of the Sun which I hoped would help to determine hydrogen  density in the outer regions. When I got back everything was ready. We  disposed ourselves about the control room and relaxed for all we were 
