be translated into the somewhat abstruse co-ordinate system we used  based on the topological order of mass-points in the galaxy. Then you  cut a tape on the computer and hit the button. Nothing was wrong with  the computer. Nothing was wrong with the engines. We'd hit the right  button and we'd gone to the place we'd aimed for. All we'd done was aim  for the wrong place. It hurts me to tell you this and I'm just attached  personnel with no space-flight tradition. In practical terms, one highly  trained crew member had punched a wrong pattern of holes on the tape.  Another equally skilled had failed to notice this when reading back. A  childish error, highly improbable; twice repeated, thus squaring the  improbability. Incredible, but that's what happened.    "Anyway, we took good care with the next lot of measurements. That's why  we were out there so long. They were cross-checked about five times. I  got sick so I climbed into a spacesuit and went outside and took some  photographs of the Sun which I hoped would help to determine hydrogen  density in the outer regions. When I got back everything was ready. We  disposed ourselves about the control room and relaxed for all we were  worth. We were all praying that this time nothing would go wrong, and  all looking forward to seeing Earth again after four months subjective  time away, except for Charley, who was still chuckling and shaking his  head, and Captain James who was glaring at Charley and obviously wishing  human dignity permitted him to tear Charley limb from limb. Then James  pressed the button.    "Everything twanged like a bowstring. I felt myself turned inside out,  passed through a small sieve, and poured back into shape. The entire bow  wall-screen was full of Earth. Something was wrong all right, and this  time it was much, much worse. We'd come out of the jump about two  hundred miles above the Pacific, pointed straight down, traveling at a  relative speed of about two thousand miles an hour.    "It was a fantastic situation. Here was the _Whale_, the most powerful  ship ever built, which could cover fifty light-years in a subjective  time of one second, and it was helpless. For, as of course you know, the 
