density in the outer regions. When I got back everything was ready. We  disposed ourselves about the control room and relaxed for all we were  worth. We were all praying that this time nothing would go wrong, and  all looking forward to seeing Earth again after four months subjective  time away, except for Charley, who was still chuckling and shaking his  head, and Captain James who was glaring at Charley and obviously wishing  human dignity permitted him to tear Charley limb from limb. Then James  pressed the button.    "Everything twanged like a bowstring. I felt myself turned inside out,  passed through a small sieve, and poured back into shape. The entire bow  wall-screen was full of Earth. Something was wrong all right, and this  time it was much, much worse. We'd come out of the jump about two  hundred miles above the Pacific, pointed straight down, traveling at a  relative speed of about two thousand miles an hour.    "It was a fantastic situation. Here was the _Whale_, the most powerful  ship ever built, which could cover fifty light-years in a subjective  time of one second, and it was helpless. For, as of course you know, the  star-drive couldn't be used again for at least two hours.    "The _Whale_ also had ion rockets of course, the standard  deuterium-fusion thing with direct conversion. As again you know, this  is good for interplanetary flight because you can run it continuously  and it has extremely high exhaust velocity. But in our situation it was  no good because it has rather a low thrust. It would have taken more  time than we had to deflect us enough to avoid a smash. We had five  minutes to abandon ship.    "James got us all into the _Minnow_ at a dead run. There was no time to  take anything at all except the clothes we stood in. The _Minnow_ was  meant for short heavy hops to planets or asteroids. In addition to the  ion drive it had emergency atomic rockets, using steam for reaction  mass. We thanked God for that when Cazamian canceled our downwards  velocity with them in a few seconds. We curved away up over China and  
