Then snow began to shift on the ledge. A man crawled stiffly out and  came shakily to his feet. He moved slowly around for some time. After  about two hours he returned to the hollow, squatted down and switched on  the recorder. The voice began again, considerably wearier.    "Hello there. I'm in the bleakest wilderness I've ever seen. This place  makes the moon look cozy. There's precipice around me every way but one  and that's up. So it's up I'll have to go till I find a way to go down.  I've been chewing snow to quench my thirst but I could eat a horse. I  picked up a short-wave broadcast on my suit but couldn't understand a  word. Not English, not French, and there I stick. Listened to it for  fifteen minutes just to hear a human voice again. I haven't much hope of  reaching anyone with my five milliwatt suit transmitter but I'll keep  trying.    "Just before I start the climb there are two things I want to get on  tape. The first is how I got here. I've remembered something from my  military training, when I did some parachute jumps. Terminal velocity  for a human body falling through air is about one hundred twenty m.p.h.  Falling fifty miles is no worse than falling five hundred feet. You'd be  lucky to live through a five hundred foot fall, true, but I've been  lucky. The suit is bulky but light and probably slowed my fall. I hit a  sixty mile an hour updraft this side of the mountain, skidded downhill  through about half a mile of snow and fetched up in a drift. The suit is  part worn but still operational. I'm fine.    "The second thing I want to say is about the Chingsi, and here it is:  watch out for them. Those jokers are dangerous. I'm not telling how  because I've got a scientific reputation to watch. You'll have to figure  it out for yourselves. Here are the clues:    (1) The Chingsi talk and laugh but after all they aren't human. On an  alien world a hundred light-years away, why shouldn't alien  talents develop? A talent that's so uncertain and rudimentary here 
