"It was a fantastic situation. Here was the _Whale_, the most powerful  ship ever built, which could cover fifty light-years in a subjective  time of one second, and it was helpless. For, as of course you know, the  star-drive couldn't be used again for at least two hours.    "The _Whale_ also had ion rockets of course, the standard  deuterium-fusion thing with direct conversion. As again you know, this  is good for interplanetary flight because you can run it continuously  and it has extremely high exhaust velocity. But in our situation it was  no good because it has rather a low thrust. It would have taken more  time than we had to deflect us enough to avoid a smash. We had five  minutes to abandon ship.    "James got us all into the _Minnow_ at a dead run. There was no time to  take anything at all except the clothes we stood in. The _Minnow_ was  meant for short heavy hops to planets or asteroids. In addition to the  ion drive it had emergency atomic rockets, using steam for reaction  mass. We thanked God for that when Cazamian canceled our downwards  velocity with them in a few seconds. We curved away up over China and  from about fifty miles high we saw the _Whale_ hit the Pacific. Six  hundred tons of mass at well over two thousand miles an hour make an  almighty splash. By now you'll have divers down, but I doubt they'll  salvage much you can use.    "I wonder why James went down with the ship, as the saying is? Not that  it made any difference. It must have broken his heart to know that his  lovely ship was getting the chopper. Or did he suspect another human  error?    "We didn't have time to think about that, or even to get the radio  working. The steam rockets blew up. Poor Cazamian was burnt to a crisp.  Only thing that saved me was the spacesuit I was still wearing. I  snapped the face plate down because the cabin was filling with fumes. I  saw Charley coming out of the toilet--that's how he'd escaped--and I saw  him beginning to laugh. Then the port side collapsed and I fell out. 
