 "You haven't mentioned anything tragic so far," she observed. "In fact,  you have made a pot of money."    "Right. After my snake had filed his income tax returns, we still had  enough money to purchase this house and to support us for a couple of  years. The only trouble is, his royalties have stopped coming in and  that money is all used up. I still haven't been able to sell any of my  landscape paintings. So we haven't any income, and that's why you and I  can't marry for a long time yet--if ever!"    Her exquisite brows wrinkled with concentration. "I don't understand.  Has Droozle written himself out?"    "Far from it," answered Jean, seating himself and parking Droozle on his  knee. "He's writing more than ever."    "The quality is gone, then?"    Jean shook his head. "No, he's writing superlatively."    "Then what _is_ the problem?" she asked, now thoroughly mystified.    "He's writing classics!" burst out Jean in baffled irritation. "He won't  write anything else! Easily seeing the approaching catastrophe, I wrote  long persuading essays to him. It was pathetically useless. Proudly he  continued to write his _Rise and Fall of the Western Plainsman_ in a  lucid, passionate prose which would evoke an imperishable picture--but  in three thousand pages."    "I think classics are _nice_," protested Judy, "and one of these days  I'm going to read another one."    Huskily Jean told her the worst. "Writing classics consumes paper by the  ton. And if you ever get your 750,000 word story finished, you must then  start shrinking it back to an acceptable 75,000 words. This is a nearly  hopeless task. Of course if you can get it back to 75,000 words the  digest magazines will have no trouble shrinking it to 15,000 words or  fifteen pictures, and you then get your fingers in the till." He paused  and all hope fled from his face. "Droozle won't live nearly long enough  to get all of that shrinking done. And in the meantime that scribbling  snake is writing me out of house and home!"    "Are you going to let him get away with it?" the girl challenged. 
