  Droozle wrote, "Please not out into the wind and the rain. Please not  into the roaring, brawling taverns where life thrives in all its  abundance. I _loathe_ shudder and tilt."    "Loathing is no reason to turn away from reality, Droozle," admonished  the artist. "Things are not nearly so bad as they used to be anyway. In  all justice, shudder and tilt requires far less body-English than its  ancestor, rock and roll."    Droozle argued carefully, "You will recall I heard some of it once when  you took me into a particularly dirty bar over in the west end of town.  I feel, as a result, that I have observed this type of data to the  extent that I can write of it competently without further study."    "Oh, but that was months ago," enthused Jean. "The tunes have all  changed by now. New pows appear on the tapes every week. You have missed  countless sockeroos already, being cooped up here. You will bless me,  once you get accustomed to the realities of life--see if you don't.  Heigh-ho the wind and the rain!"    The snake shuddered.    "Careful, you'll centrifuge," Judy warned.    Jean added reflectively, studying the ceiling, "Day by day, month by  month, year by year, the reality of everyday existence etches deeply  into our consciousness, if we will but have the fortitude to expose  ourselves to it."    Droozle unavoidably centrifuged this time, but did manage, with  laborious lateral movements, to mix the hemoglobin back with the plasma  again.    He complained, "It is cruel of you to condemn me to this ugliness. I  want only to read my books and hear a few simple fugues by Bach."    "It is not cruel. You will have exactly the same existence I have chosen  for myself as an artist. It is fundamental that if you are to write  serious literature, you must rub your nose against the realities of  life."    Droozle wriggled unhappily for a moment. Finally he wrote, "Actually my  writing may not be as serious as the title implies. Misunderstandings  conceivably arise over titles. Instead of _The Rise and Fall of the 
