Droozle had ceased wriggling for the moment and lay there shaking  violently, as though he had malaria. Then the paroxysm passed and he  took up his restless movements again.    "The poor genius," mourned Judy. "He must be sick with frustration."    "Sick, my eye! That snake has learned to centrifuge part of his blood  while it is in his body, so that the hemoglobin is separated out. The  result is--invisible ink!"    "Why, I'll tell that Droozle off!" raved Judy. "Here I sat feeling sorry  for the little crumb!"    Droozle did not mind. While she ranted, he brazenly began writing in  visible ink once more.    "How did you catch him at it?" she asked.    "I used a piece of his newspaper to pick up a hot saw blade. The heat  turned the invisible ink brown."    "Droozle," said the girl passionately, looking down at the writer, "you  know your master is in great need of funds. _Where_ is your sense of  loyalty and self-sacrifice for the one who has cared for you?"    Droozle wrote poetically, "Is there Joy or any other good thing in  Abnegation? Is there Beauty in Sacrifice? What Handsome purpose do these  serve a being in his race with Time? His Days will soon be spent and  they will come no more; thus my Criterion: Is This the most Joy  gathering, Awareness touching, Beauty sensing act of which he is  capable? None other is worthy of his time!"    "Men are not so selfish," objected Jean.    "I am not a man," wrote Droozle simply.    Jean turned staunchly to the girl. "Judy, he has convinced me. I have  been wrong about him. From now on _he can write whatever he likes_!"    "Good-by to our hopes then?"    "For the present, yes," assented Jean stoically, as he brought fresh  sheets of paper from his desk for Droozle. "My landscapes might begin to  sell after a while," he added without conviction.    "Rotten little crumb," Judy fumed, glaring balefully at the snake. But  Droozle wrote serenely on, his ruby eyes glowing enigmatically.    Jean interposed magnanimously, "I see now that I have been inexcusably 
