"I'm not through, Jim. Just consider how fantastic the whole idea is.  Because of a series of accidents you can't accuse a child of planned  murder. Nor can you further hypothesize that all orphans are  changelings, imbued with an instinct to polish off their  foster-siblings."    "Not _all_ orphans, Bob. Not planned murder, either. Take it easy. Just  some of them. A few of them--different. Growing up. Placing their young  with well-to-do families somehow, and then dropping unobtrusively out of  the picture. And the young growing up, and always the natural children  dying off in one way or another. The changeling inherits, and the  process is repeated, step by step. Can you say it's impossible? Do you  _know_ it's impossible?"    "I wouldn't say impossible, Jim. But I _would_ say that your thesis has  a remarkably low index of probability. Why don't others suspect, besides  you?"    Jim spread his hands hopelessly. "I don't know. Maybe they do. Maybe  these creatures--if they do exist--have some means of protection we  don't know about."    "You need more than maybes, Jim. What about Joanna Simmons' mother?  According to your theories she should have been well off. Was she?"    "No, she wasn't," Jim admitted reluctantly. "She came here and took a  job with my outfit. Said she was divorced, and had lived in New York.  Then she quit to take a position in California, and we agreed to board  Joanna until she got settled. Warrenburg was the town. She was killed  there quite horribly, in a terrible auto accident."    "Have you any reason for suspecting skulduggery? Honestly, Jim? Or for  labelling her one of your human--er--cuckoos?"    "Only my hunch. We had a newspaper clipping, and a letter from the  coroner. We even sent the money for her funeral. But those things could  be faked, Bob."    "Give me some evidence that they _were_ faked, and I'll be happy to  reinspect your views." Holland levered his avoirdupois out of his chair.  "In the meantime, relax. Take a trip if you can. Try not to worry."    Jim grinned humorlessly. "Mustn't let myself get excited, eh? Okay, Bob.  But if I get hold of any evidence that I think you might accept, I'll be 
