tendencies, and offhand I'm inclined to agree with you. Overnight you  changed your mind and began thinking that maybe, just maybe, she might  be right. Honestly, don't you suspect your own reasons for such a quick  switch?"    "Sure I do, Bob," Blair said worriedly. "Do you think I haven't beaten  out my brains over it? I know the idea's monstrous. But just suppose  there _was_ a branch of humanity--if you could call it human--living off  us unsuspected. A branch that knows how to eliminate--competition--almost  by instinct."    "Now hold on a minute, Jim. You've taken Jean's reaction to this last  death, plus a random association with a cuckoo clock, and here you are  with a perfectly wild hypothesis. You've always been rational and  analytical, old man. Surely you can realize that a perfectly normal urge  to rationalize Jean's conclusions is making you concur with them against  your better judgment."    "Bob--"    "I'm not through, Jim. Just consider how fantastic the whole idea is.  Because of a series of accidents you can't accuse a child of planned  murder. Nor can you further hypothesize that all orphans are  changelings, imbued with an instinct to polish off their  foster-siblings."    "Not _all_ orphans, Bob. Not planned murder, either. Take it easy. Just  some of them. A few of them--different. Growing up. Placing their young  with well-to-do families somehow, and then dropping unobtrusively out of  the picture. And the young growing up, and always the natural children  dying off in one way or another. The changeling inherits, and the  process is repeated, step by step. Can you say it's impossible? Do you  _know_ it's impossible?"    "I wouldn't say impossible, Jim. But I _would_ say that your thesis has  a remarkably low index of probability. Why don't others suspect, besides  you?"    Jim spread his hands hopelessly. "I don't know. Maybe they do. Maybe  these creatures--if they do exist--have some means of protection we  don't know about."    "You need more than maybes, Jim. What about Joanna Simmons' mother?  According to your theories she should have been well off. Was she?"    "No, she wasn't," Jim admitted reluctantly. "She came here and took a 
