as a President of his country had once remarked. The irksomeness and  restraint of his position began to wear on his nerves, and he cried  aloud for something--anything--to happen rather than what he was  enduring.    Something happened.    From between the Islands, there slowly appeared a great modern French  ship of war, small in the distance. Hope lighted up the face of De  Plonville. She must pass near enough to enable his signalling to be  seen by the lookout. Heavens! how leisurely she moved! Then a second  war vessel followed the first into view, and finally a third. The three  came slowly along in stately procession. De Plonville removed his coat  and waved it up and down to attract attention. So intent was he upon  this that he nearly lost his footing, and, realizing that the men-of-  war were still too far away, he desisted. He sat down as his excitement  abated, and watched their quiet approach. Once it seemed to him they  had stopped, and he leaned forward, shading his eyes with his hand, and  watched them eagerly. They were just moving--that was all.    Suddenly, from the black side of the foremost battle-ship, there rolled  upward a cloud of white smoke, obscuring the funnels and the rigging,  thinning out into the blue sky over the top-masts. After what seemed a  long interval the low, dull roar of a cannon reached him, followed by  the echo from the high hills of the island, and later by the fainter  re-echo from the mountains on the mainland. This depressed De  Plonville, for, if the ships were out for practice, the obscuring smoke  around them would make the seeing of his signalling very improbable;  and then that portion of the fleet might return the way it came,  leaving him in his predicament. From the second ironclad arose a  similar cloud, and this time far to his left there spurted up from the  sea a jet of water, waving in the air like a plume for a moment, then  dropping back in a shower on the ruffled surface.    The buoy was a target!    As De Plonville realized its use, he felt that uncomfortable creeping 
