we got out into better air. In a surly manner he agreed to this and  started the train, but he did not play fair. Each time he refused to  give up the machine until I was in a fainting condition with holding in  my breath, and, finally, he felled me to the floor of the cab. I  imagine that the machine rolled off the train as I fell and that he  jumped after it. The remarkable thing is that neither of us needed the  machine, for I remember that just after we started I noticed through  the open iron door that the engine fire suddenly became aglow again,  although at the time I was in too great a state of bewilderment and  horror to understand what it meant. A western gale had sprung up--an  hour too late. Even before we left Cannon Street those who still  survived were comparatively safe, for one hundred and sixty-seven  persons were rescued from that fearful heap of dead on the platforms,  although many died within a day or two after, and others never  recovered their reason. When I regained my senses after the blow dealt  by the engineer, I found myself alone, and the train speeding across  the Thames near Kew. I tried to stop the engine, but did not succeed.  However, in experimenting, I managed to turn on the air brake, which in  some degree checked the train, and lessened the impact when the crash  came at Richmond terminus. I sprang off on the platform before the  engine reached the terminal buffers, and saw passing me like a  nightmare the ghastly trainload of the dead. Most of the doors were  swinging open, and every compartment was jammed full, although, as I  afterwards learned, at each curve of the permanent way, or extra lurch  of the train, bodies had fallen out all along the line. The smash at  Richmond made no difference to the passengers. Besides myself, only two  persons were taken alive from the train, and one of these, his clothes  torn from his back in the struggle was sent to an asylum, where he was  never able to tell who he was; neither, as far as I know, did anyone  ever claim him. 
