wiped it thoroughly with a cloth he had with him, and threw the cloth  into one of the deserted houses.    They waited near, until the spots caused by the fluid on the stone  pavement in front of the house had disappeared.    "By the time we reach the hill," said Lambelle, "it will be quite dry  in this hot sun."    As they departed towards the elevation, the forlorn dog howled  mournfully, as if in premonition of his fate.    "I think, to make sure," said the inventor, when they reached the  electrical apparatus, "that we might wait for half an hour."    The Minister lit a cigarette, and smoked silently, a strange battle  going on in his mind. He found himself believing in the extraordinary  claims made by the inventor, and his thought dwelt on the awful  possibilities of such an explosive.    "Will you press the electric lever?" asked Lambelle quietly. "Remember  that you are inaugurating a new era."    The Minister pressed down the key, and then, putting his field-glass to  his eye, he saw that the dog was released, but the animal sat there  scratching its ear with its paw. Then, realizing that it was loose, it  sniffed for a moment at the chain. Finally, it threw up its head and  barked, although the distance was too great for them to hear any sound.  The dog started in the direction the two men had gone, but, before it  had taken three steps, the Minister was appalled to see the buildings  suddenly crumble into dust, and a few moments later the thunder of the  rocks falling into the deserted quarry came toward them. The whole  ledge had been flung forwards into the chasm. There was no smoke, but a  haze of dust hovered over the spot.    "My God!" cried the Minister. "That is awful!"    "Yes," said Lambelle quietly; "I put more of the substance on the  flagging than I need to have done. A few drops would have answered  quite as well, but I wanted to make sure. You were very sceptical, you  know."    The Minister looked at him. "I beg of you, M. Lambelle, never to 
