the purport of the words startled him.    "Let us be thankful. He is undoubtedly dead." This was said in a tone  of infinite satisfaction.    There seemed to be a murmur of pleasure at the announcement from those  who were with the speaker. Stanford slowly opened his eyes, wondering  what these savages were who rejoiced in the death of an inoffensive  stranger cast upon their shores. He saw a group standing around him,  but his attention speedily became concentrated on one face. The owner  of it, he judged, was not more than nineteen years of age, and the  face--at least so it seemed to Stanford at the time--was the most  beautiful he had ever beheld. There was an expression of sweet gladness  upon it until her eyes met his, then the joy faded from the face, and a  look of dismay took its place. The girl seemed to catch her breath in  fear, and tears filled her eyes.    "Oh," she cried, "he is going to live."    She covered her face with her hands, and sobbed.    Stanford closed his eyes wearily. "I am evidently insane," he said to  himself. Then, losing faith in the reality of things, he lost  consciousness as well, and when his senses came to him again he found  himself lying on a bed in a clean but scantily furnished room. Through  an open window came the roar of the sea, and the thunderous boom of the  falling waves brought to his mind the experiences through which he had  passed. The wreck and the struggle with the waves he knew to be real,  but the episode on the beach he now believed to have been but a vision  resulting from his condition.    A door opened noiselessly, and, before he knew of anyone's entrance, a  placid-faced nurse stood by his bed and asked him how he was.    "I don't know. I am at least alive."    The nurse sighed, and cast down her eyes. Her lips moved, but she said  nothing. Stanford looked at her curiously. A fear crept over him that  he was hopelessly crippled for life, and that death was considered  preferable to a maimed existence. He felt wearied, though not in pain, 
