 the surly farmers for "contributions." Since he was here to collect  back-taxes, the inhabitants would not take kindly to feeding the  collectors.    The village had a stockade of undressed logs and wide gates at either  end. These were surmounted by arched wooden structures that were  supposed to serve as watch-towers, but beyond spears and knives for  hunting and the necessary farming implements, the villagers were not  allowed to carry weapons of any kind. The stockade was not big enough  to enclose all the houses, and the majority of these were on the  outside and huddled against the walls.    The small body of Roman troops--barely a _manipulus_--were not  surprised to notice that all the windows and booths had been  shuttered, and in the exact center of the village, the local chieftain  and heads of families were gathered in a respectful and anxious  group. It annoyed the captain that it was impossible to make an  unexpected arrival anywhere in Britain; news traveled faster than Roman  foot-soldiers.    "Hail Caesar!" said the captain, putting his arm up, the palm of his  hand facing forward.    "Hail Caesar!" said the villagers.    "We come for the taxes which were not paid last year."    The villagers shook their heads and made regretful sounds.    "Nor the year before, nor the year before that. Which is your headman?  I shall require food for my men at once--they are tired after a day's  march."    A gray-bearded, very tall man stood forward. "The food will be ready at  once, noble decemvir, and I hope you will honor me with your presence  for dinner."    "Thank you very much," said the captain, "but I prefer to stay with my  men until I see them taken care of. And I am not a decemvir. My rank is  captain--Caesar's captain."    The bearded man bowed and said, "Then, after the arrangements have been  made, Captain, will you not take a cup of wine?"    "Don't press him, Grandfather," a voice said from above them, and,  looking up, the captain saw a girl's face at a second-story window. She  had very dark skin, red hair and blue eyes. "If he's been walking all 
