 "'I can see!' he told them. But they were puzzled, for they had brought  no lights.    "'What can you see?' they asked. 'There is nothing to be seen here in  the dark.'    "'I see _black_!' he said. 'In front of my face is blackness--however,  at the back of my head, I'm still blind and I see nothing.'"    Katherine was delighted. "I'm not quite sure I understand."    "Why, to the blind there are no shadows," Farley said. "Another drink?"    "I think it would be lovely," she had said, and since she could see no  shadows, she had begun to fall in love.    Doctor Russell Chalmers Farley looked up at Phil and smiled. It was  a charming smile and it was as genuine as a guaranteed, ten-carat,  real, honest-to-goodness zircon. "As Katherine has probably told you,"  he said, "what you are doing is completely over my bowed head. I am  enormously impressed and at the same time unable to comprehend."    "I find it hard to comprehend, too," Phil Kaufman said. "And I suppose  that's what leads me on."    "Well, the thing is," Farley continued, "Washington seems to have  gotten wind of it, and you know how they are. They don't like things to  be over their heads."    Phil Kaufman looked at him in astonishment and sat on a lab stool.  "I don't understand. How can they possibly be interested in what I'm  doing? It's purely theoretical research."    "Surely you don't deny that Lisa Meitner's researches began by being  theoretical? And look what _they_ led to. The point is, Kaufman, that I  have been informed that we are about to receive a visit from a man from  the A.E.C. He's arriving here sometime this afternoon."    "But that's absurd! I'm not _doing_ anything to atoms. I'm merely  examining them!"    Katherine frowned when he said this. Phil knew better. Worse yet, so  did she.    "When the A.E.C. hears of somebody working in atomic research," Farley  said, "they want to know what's cooking. I hate you to be subjected to  this, but it won't do any harm to be polite to the fellow and let him, 
