   "Then it would appear that she copied from you."    "That's a beastly thing to say! It was a coincidence! She's not a  cheat!"    The headmistress felt on secure ground: the child was losing her  temper. It was Miss Wakefield's favorite stratagem to make people lose  their tempers--that is, if they were children or underlings.    "Blow your nose, Stone," she said, and then, seeing that Sarah had no  handkerchief, she gave her her own, with a look of distaste. "I think  perhaps you might do better at some other school."    "So do I, Miss Wakefield," Sarah said. "Mother wanted to get me into  Mr. Russell's school, but it was full up."    "_Bertrand_ Russell?"    Sarah nodded, blowing her nose again. She was shivering.    "_Well!_" said Miss Wakefield. "I never heard the like! He's an  Atheist! Why, he believes in _Free Love_!"    "I don't know what he believes," Sarah said. "I know he was awfully  nice when he came to tea. He said I had some kind of a guiding somebody  standing over me. He said he would like awfully to have me at his  school, but it was full up. I know one of the boys there and he says  it's simply ripping."    "_Well!_ Of course, if your mother thinks of us as Second Best....  Perhaps Mr. Russell believes it is all right to cheat in examinations,  but we have a Tradition at St. Agatha's." She rang a bell on her desk  and a scrawny little housemaid came in. "Send one of the girls for  Angela Harvey," Miss Wakefield said. "Tell her to come here directly."  The little housemaid bobbed respectfully and went out. "Now we shall  see what _she_ has to say," the headmistress said.    "She'll only be frightened and cry," Sarah said, "and she'll say  anything you want her to. She wouldn't _dare_ cheat in an examination."    "Then you admit that you copied from her?"    "I do not!" Sarah said, her teeth chattering. "I tell you it was  a fluke! Miss Somerville jolly well knows I wouldn't do it!" Miss  Somerville was the new and still enthusiastic math teacher, but her 
