 took the tweezers from Molly, who had returned, and neatly removed  something from the cut. He held it under the light and looked at it  through the lens. Then he rinsed it under the water faucet, dried it on  a piece of filter-paper and looked at it again. "Well, it looks like  glass. I don't know. Maybe it's the nucleus of the glass chunk and...."  His voice trailed off and he frowned at nothing in particular, putting  the fragment down on the filter-paper.    I picked it up. It seemed like a bit of sand, only brighter.    McGill's concern over this new object of interest had been so intent  that for a few minutes our attention was diverted, but now Molly began  to pace up and down. There didn't seem to be anything for us to do, and  unlike most nurses, waiting makes her nervous. She was looking at the  display of various chemicals and reagents on the shelves.    "What's that stuff?" she asked, pointing to a large jar of black powder  labeled Deflocculated Graphite. "I bet those cops have gone for a  search warrant."    "Finely divided carbon," McGill said. "Damn, I wish I could think of  something! A chunk of glass ... blowing up...."    "Graphite is carbon?" Molly said. "You don't think they'd actually  _do_ anything to Alec, do you?"    "It's another form of carbon. A diamond is still another: the rare  crystalline form," he said. "I wouldn't put it past that mob to do  anything."    "Oh, yes. I remember that in chemistry," Molly said. "But the police  wouldn't let them, McGill, would they?"    "I've got an idea--" I tried to break in.    "They might not be able to stop them," McGill replied.    "We've got to get _out_ of here!" Molly said for the second time.    "If a diamond--" I began.    "With a helicopter, we might," McGill said. "Right now, we're  surrounded."    "How about hiding Alec?" Molly asked. "You and I could act innocent."    "I don't _want_ to be hidden," I objected. "My idea is--"    "Or better yet, we could act guilty. That would appeal to them, 
