 The lieutenant had the hook-and-ladder driven to a distant police  station, where in due course Vinelli, the lawyer, arrived with his  foot in a cast, and I was bailed out. The cops showed me surprising  consideration; it turned out they were furious at the irresponsible  riding they had been getting from Bill Bart. A scientific big-shot  that McGill knew, named Joe Stein, convinced them I was in no way to  blame, and the case was dropped. Professor Stein gave a wonderfully  incomprehensible but tranquilizing statement to the press, and Molly  and I went to Oyster Bay.    "In two weeks, everybody'll have forgotten all about it," the  lieutenant told us. "You may even be a hero. I don't know."    Before we left, we went with McGill to the lab and saw the diamond. It  sat on a bench, gleaming brilliant, smooth-faceted and without a flaw.  It was at least two feet across, about the same as the chunk of "glass"  on Fifty-first Street.    "The cops never recognized what it was," McGill said, "it being so big."    "Who would?" Molly asked. "McGill, I've got an idea--"    "All I had to do," McGill said, ignoring her, "was to put the graphite  on some cinder blocks and the fragment on the graphite. Then I turned  a bunsen flame on it and it caught fire with a terrifically bright  flame--very small--I guess you saw it." I nodded. "It didn't give off  any heat," he went on. "Adiabatic process. And it got its necessary  pressure from the random motions together of the graphite particles.  Some random motions! When that was used up, it started on the cinder  blocks and then the CO_{2} in the air. That's what caused the suction:  the blinds were blown straight in. You probably missed that." I shook  my head. "Anyway, this thing--"    "McGill," Molly interrupted, "I've got an _idea_!"    "--this thing has got to be dumped out at sea."    "Oh," Molly said, looking crest-fallen. "I was just going to say why  don't we break a piece off and sell it in Amsterdam?"    "Good God, no! That would only start it up all over again!" 
