 "All right," the gentle voice answered. "Protected. Go ahead, old man."    The Hawk relaxed and his face softened. "How are you, Eliot?" he asked  almost tenderly.    "Just fine, Carse," came in the clear, cultured voice of Master  Scientist Eliot Leithgow, probably the greatest scientific mind in the  solar system, Ku Sui being the only possible exception. He spoke now  from his secret laboratory on Jupiter's Satellite III, near Porno, this  transcendent genius who, with Friday, was one of Carse's two trusted  comrades-in-arms. "I've been expecting you," he went on. "Has something  happened?"    "I'm concerned with Ku Sui again," the Hawk told him swiftly. "Please  excuse me; I have to be brief. I can't take any chances of his hearing  any of this." He related the events of the last two days: Judd's attack  on the Iapetus ranch, the subsequent fight and outcome, and finally his  present position and intention of keeping the rendezvous. "The odds are  pretty heavily against me, M. S.," he went on. "It would be stupid not  to admit that I may not come out of this affair alive--and that's why  I'm calling. My affairs, of course, are in your hands. You know where my  storerooms and papers are. Sell my trading posts and ranches; Hartz of  Newark-on-Venus is the best man to deal through. But I'd advise you to  keep for yourself that information on the Pool of Radium. Look into it  sometime. I'm in Judd's ship, the _Scorpion_; our _Star Devil's_ on  Iapetus, hidden in the jungle near the ranch. That's all, I think."    "Carse, I should be with you!"    "No, M. S.--couldn't risk it. You're too valuable a man. But don't  worry, you know my luck. I'll very likely be down to see you after this  meeting, and perhaps with a visitor who will enable you once again to  return to an honorable position on Earth. Where will you be?"    "In eight Earth days? Let's make it Porno, at the house you know. I'll  come in for some supplies and wait for you."    "Good," the Hawk said shortly. "Good-by, M. S."    He paused, his hand on the switch. There came a parting wish: 
