colorful figure. These qualities of his live again in the outlanders'  reminiscences and also of course his score of blood-feuds and the one  great feud that shook whole worlds in its final terrible settling--the  feud of Hawk Carse and Dr. Ku Sui.    Again and again the paths of the adventurer and the sinister, brilliant  Eurasian crossed, and each crossing makes a rich tale. Time after time  Ku Sui, through his several bands of space-pirates, his individual  agents and his ambitious web of power insidiously weaving over the  universe, whipped his tentacles after the Hawk, and always the tentacles  coiled back, repulsed and bloody. An almost typical episode is in the  affair which followed what has been called the Exploit of the Hawk and  the Kite.    It will be remembered--as related in "Hawk Carse"[1]--that Dr. Ku laid a  most ingenious trap for Carse on the latter's ranch on Iapetus, eighth  satellite of Saturn. Judd the Kite, pirate and scavenger, was the  Eurasian's tool in this plot, which started with a raid on the ranch.  The fracas which followed the Hawk's escape from the trap was bloody and  grim enough, and resulted in the erasure of Judd and all his men save  one; but the important thing to the following affair was that Judd's  ship, the Scorpion, fell into Carse's hands with one prisoner and the  ship's log, containing the space coordinates for a prearranged  assignation of Judd with Ku Sui.    [1] See the November, 1931, issue of Astounding Stories.    All other projects were postponed by the Hawk at this opportunity to  meet Dr. Ku face to face. The trail of the Eurasian was the guiding  trail of his life, and swiftly he moved along it.    There was work to be done before he could set out. Three men had emerged  alive from the clash between the Hawk and the Kite: Carse himself,  Friday, his gigantic negro companion in adventure, and a bearded  half-caste called Sako, sole survivor of Judd's crew. Aided sullenly by  this man, they first cleaned up the ravaged ranch, burying the bodies  of the dead, repairing fences and generally bringing order out of 
