I just can't figure it, unless I fainted."    "Oh." The Hawk smiled. "Fainted. Well so did I, I guess. I suppose," he  went on seriously, "you couldn't tell whether the asteroid moved or not.  I mean toward Satellite III."    Friday scratched his head again.    "I guess I can't, suh," he replied. "I haven't felt any movement."    "The door is locked?"    "Oh, yes, suh. Tight."    "Very well. Now please be silent. I want to think."    He went over and leaned against the far wall of the cell. His right hand  rose to the bangs of flaxen hair and with a slow regular movement began  to smooth them. Lost in thought he stood there, thinking through the  situation in which he found himself.    He had expected, of course, to subject himself to great risk in keeping  the rendezvous with Dr. Ku Sui, but he had never thought he would be  endangering Eliot Leithgow also. It was torture to know he had put the  gentle old scientist into the Eurasian's web.    That was it: if he could not somehow shear through that web, he must  destroy Leithgow himself, and follow on after. The scientist would  prefer it so. For whatever Dr. Ku's exact reason for wanting the Master  Scientist was, it was an ugly one: that it was worse than quick death,  he knew full well.    Shear through the web. How? Where was the weak strand in Ku Sui's  cunningly laid plot? The Hawk visualized all he could of the asteroid's  mechanical details, and surveyed them painstakingly. Two great  port-locks flanked by little ones; secret opening combinations--not much  hope in that avenue. Judd's ship, resting above: could he reach it, and  raise it and douse the buildings with its rays? No; Dr. Ku had spoken of  defense rays--they would certainly be far more powerful than the  _Scorpion's_. Then, somewhere there were the mighty gravity-plates  batteries which motivated the asteroid and held it controlled in space.  The dynamos. Two men, working swiftly, might wreak an unholy amount of  damage in little time; in the resulting confusion anything might happen.  If!  
