   The light struck straight down upon an operating table. At its head  stood a squat metal cylinder sprouting a long flexible tube which ended  in a cone--no doubt the anesthetizing apparatus. A stepped-back tier of  white metal drawers flanked one side of the table, upon its various  upper surfaces an array of gleaming surgeon's tools. In neat squads they  lay there: long thin knives with straight and curved cutting edges;  handled wires, curved into hooks and eccentric corkscrew shapes;  scalpels of different sizes; forceps, clasps, retractors, odd metal  claws, circular saw-blades and a variety of other unclassified  instruments. Sterilizers were convenient to one side, a thin wraith of  steam drifting up from them into the source of the light.    Four men worked within the brilliant shaft of illumination--four  white-clad figures, hands gloved and faces swathed in surgeons' masks.  Only their lifeless eyes were visible, concentrated on their tasks of  preparation. Steam rose in increased mists as one figure lifted back the  lid of a sterilizer and dropped in some gleaming instruments. The cloud  swirled around his masked face and body with devilish infernolike  effect.    All this in deadest silence. From the darkness came another figure, tall  and commanding, a shape whose black silk garments struck a new note in  the dazzling whiteness of the scene. He was pulling on operating gloves.  His slanted eyes showed keen and watchful through the eyeholes of the  mask he already wore, as he surveyed the preparations. Ominous Ku Sui  looked, among his white-clad assistants.    The Eurasian seemed to give an order, and a white figure turned and  glanced off into the surrounding darkness, raising one hand. A door  showed in faint outline as it opened. Through the door two shadows  moved, wheeling something long and flat between them.    They came into the light, two coolies, and wheeled their conveyance  alongside the operating table. Then they turned into the darkness and  were gone.    "Oh!" gasped Friday. "They've shaved off his head!"    *      *      *      *      * 
