slept, who drove off unconsciousness and fought through nausea to keep  at his task of shepherding, failing which they would have drifted  miles apart and become hopelessly separated. He was able to maintain  them in a fairly compact group by his discovery of a short metal  direction rod on the breast of the suit, which gave horizontal  movement in the direction it was pointed when its button was pressed.    *       *       *       *       *    But though it seemed endless, the journey was not; Satellite III grew  and grew. Its pale circle spread outward; dark blurs took definition;  a spot of blue winked forth--the Great Briney Lake. The globe at last  became concave, then, after they entered its atmosphere, convex. This  last stretch was the most grueling.    Friday remembered it in vivid flashes. Time after time he dropped into  confused sleep, each time to be awakened by Carse jarring into him,  shouting at him through the suits' small radio sets, keeping him--and  Leithgow--attentive to the job of decelerating. The man's efforts must  have been terrific, taxing all his enormous driving power, for he at  that time was without doubt more exhausted than they. But he  succeeded, and he was a haggard-faced, feverish shell of himself when  at last he had them in a dangling drunken halt in the air a hundred  feet from the surface.    Primal savagery lay stretched out below, and there seemed to be no safe  spot whereon to land. The foul, deep swamp that reached for miles on  every side, the towering trees that sprouted their spiny trunks and  limbs from it, the interlaced razor-edged vines and creeper-growths--all  was a stirring welter of tropic life, life varied and voracious and  untamed. From the tiny poisonous bansi insects layers deep on the  nearest tree to the monster gantor that crouched in a clump of weeds,  gently sawing his fangs back and forth, all the creatures of this world  were against man.    Carse scanned the scene wearily. They had to land; had to sleep under 
