A last slice of blotched, flaming red, the rim of setting Jupiter,  still silhouetted Porno, sprawled inside its high, electric-wired  fences, and the flood of fading light brushed the town with beauty.  The rows of tin shacks which housed its dives, the clustered,  nondescript hovels, the merchants' grim strongholds of steel--all  merged into a glowing mirage, a scene far alien to the brooding swamp  and savage jungle in whose breast it lay. Here and there several  space-ships reared their sunset-gilded flanks, glittering high-lights  in the final glorious burst of Jupiter-light....    The planet's rim vanished abruptly, and Porno returned to true  character.    For a moment it appeared what it was: a blotched, disordered huddle,  ugly, raw, fit companion of the swamp and jungle. Then beads of light  appeared, some still, some winking, one crooked line of flaring  illumination marking the Street of the Sailors, along which the  notorious kantrans flourished, now ready for their nightly brood of  men who sought forgetfulness in revelry. Soon, Carse knew, the faint  man-noises he heard would grow into a broad fabric of sound, stitched  across by shrieks and roars as the isuan and alkite flowed free. And  all around the lone watcher in the sakari tree the night-monsters were  crawling out in jungle and swamp on the dark routine of their lives  as, in the town, two-legged creatures even lower in their degradation  went abroad after the dope and liquor which gave them their vicious  recreation.    The night flowed thicker around him.    *       *       *       *       *    From somewhere behind, the Hawk heard a suck of half-fluid mud as a  giant body stretched in its sleeping place. A tree close to his  suddenly fluttered with the unseen life it harbored. A hungry gantor  raised its long deep bellow to the night, and another answered, and  another.    It grew pitch black. Only a sprinkling of pin-points of light marked  Porno to the eye. The sky beyond the town matched the sky to the rear. 
