search for Leithgow's laboratory?    Or did it mean that Dr. Ku had merely radioed instructions for his  Venusian henchmen to ransack the house, take whatever pertained to  Leithgow, and wait for him?    Venusians.... There was only one logical man; and as Hawk Carse  thought of him in that dark and silent house of tragedy, his right  hand slowly rose to the bangs of hair over his forehead and began to  stroke them....    His bangs were an unusual style for the period; they stamped him and  attracted unwanted attention; but he would wear his hair in that  fashion until he went down in death. For he had once been  trapped--trapped neatly by five men, and maltreated: one, Judd the  Kite, whose life had paid already for his part in the ugly business;  two others whom he was not now concerned with; the fourth, Dr. Ku Sui;  and the fifth--a Venusian....    That fifth, the Venusian, was Lar Tantril, now one of Ku Sal's most  powerful henchmen, and director of his interplanetary drug  traffic--Lar Tantril, who possessed an impregnable isuan ranch only  twenty-five miles from Port o' Porno--_Lar Tantril, who probably had  directed the stealing of the papers from this room_! _The papers, if  not already in Ku Sui's hands_, _should be at Tantril's ranch_.    Carse's deduction was followed by a swift decision. He had to raid Lar  Tantril's ranch.    He knew the place fairly well. Once, even, he had attacked it, in his  _Star Devil_, seeking to wipe out his debt against Tantril; but he had  been driven off by the ranch's mighty offensive rays.    It was impregnable, Tantril was fond of boasting. Situated on the  brink of the Great Briney, its other three sides were flanked by  thick, swampy jungle, in which the isuan grew and was gathered by  Tantril's Venusian workers. Ranch? More a fort than a ranch, with its  electrified, steel-spiked fence; its three watch-towers, lookouts  always posted there against the threat of hijackers or enemies; its  powerful ray-batteries and miscellany of smaller weapons. A less  vulnerable place for the keeping of Eliot Leithgow's papers could  hardly have been found in all the frontiers of the solar system. 
