  CHAPTER II    _Pursuit_      That was the Hawk's method, and it had given him the name which he had  made famous. It was characteristic of the man that he preferred to  strike at an enemy ship in a wild, breath-taking swoop, even as the  fierce hawk plummets from high heaven to sink its talons deep into the  flesh of its more sluggish prey. Nerves were uncomfortable things to  have on such occasions, and Harkness had them, and accordingly he felt  his heart hammer and something tight seemed to bind his throat. He  tried to assume the unshakable calmness of the motionless figure at  the stick, but could not, for his body was only flesh and blood--and  Hawk Carse was tempered, frosty, steel. Through staring eyes the  navigator watched the surface of Iapetus rushing into the bow ports,  watched it spread accelerating outward, until he could plainly see the  pirate ship lying there, and the nearby figures of men tugging at the  heavy boxes of horns.    His eyes were on those figures when they broke. First they teetered  hesitantly a moment, glancing wildly around and up at the vision of  death that was coming like a silver comet from the skies, and then  they melted apart. Three scrambled towards the rim of jungle foliage  close at hand, while their fellows leaped in the other direction,  trying to make an open port in their craft. Harkness saw them tumble  headlong through it and slam it shut. Then a web of blue streaks  appeared around the ship, and softened until her hull was bathed is  ghostly bluish light.    "Their defensive ray-web's on, sir!" he managed to gasp. Carse, though  close, might not have heard, so intently was he watching. The altitude  dial's pointer reached for one thousand and slid past. Harkness's face  was pale and drawn; his tight-gripped fingers and clenched teeth  showed that he expected to crash into the ground in a molten,  shapeless tomb of steel. But Friday was grinning, his teeth a slash of  white.    "Stand by bow projectors," sounded the Hawk's clipped voice. The negro  extended his hands and rumbled:    
