 all in the same motion, and then the negro's neck muscles corded as he  listened to the sounds that came, choking and barely intelligible,  from a loudspeaker:    "Carse--Hawk Carse--Crane speaking from the ranch. We're  besieged--pirate ship--outnumbered--can't hold out much longer. We got  most of the cargo inside here, but our generators--they're  weakening--and I'm fading, I guess, and the others that're left are  wounded. Carse--hurry--hurry...."    Five words went back into the microphone before the receiver went  dead.    "I'm coming, Crane! Hold on!"    Friday had seen the Hawk in such moments before, and he knew the  sight; but the navigator, Harkness, had not been with Carse very long,  and now he stood silent, motionless, while despite himself a shiver  ran down his spine as he stared at the tight-pressed bloodless lips  and the gray eyes, cold now as space. He started nervously when the  Hawk turned and looked him in the eye.    "I want speed," came his quiet, soft, deceptive voice. "I want that  hour's running time sliced by a third. Streak through that  atmosphere."    "Yes, suh!" answered Friday.    "And you"--to Harkness--"be very sure you get out every ounce she's  got. Tell the engineer personally."    "Full speed. Yes, sir," said the navigator, and felt relieved when  Carse turned his eyes away. For the Hawk, as always when he learned  that property had been ravaged and his friends shot down, seemed less  human than the Indrots at the far end of the frigid deeps of space he  roamed. His face was mask-like, graven, totally expressionless: blood  had been shed, and for each ounce another had to be spilled to balance  the scales. At a speaking tube that reached aft to the three other  members of the crew, he whispered: "Fighting posts. Arm and be ready  for action. Pirates are attacking ranch," and then went noiselessly to  the forward electelscope. Meanwhile Friday kept his eyes strictly on  the dials before him and held the space-stick rigid, while aft, in the  ship's other compartments, three men strapped on ray-gun belts and  wondered who was doomed to be caught in the swoop of the Hawk. 
