   Night had settled over the ranch by the time the _Star Devil_ and  Judd's accompanying ship were in the satellite's atmosphere. It was  the rare, deep, moonless night of Iapetus, when the only light came  from the far, cold, distant stars that hung faintly twinkling in the  great void above. Occasionally, the tiny world was lit clearly at  night by the rays of Saturn, reflected from one of the eight other  satellites; and occasionally, too, there was no night, the central sun  of the solar universe sending its distance-weakened shafts of fire to  light one side of the globe while ringed Saturn gilded the other.    But this season was the one of dark, full-bodied nights; and it was  into the hush of their blackness that the _Star Devil_ and her  attendant brigand ship glided.    Below, on the surface of the Satellite, glowed the pin-prick of a  camp-fire. When the ships were some fifteen thousand feet up, Judd's  orders caused long light-rays to shaft out from the _Star Devil_ and  finger the ground. They rested on the ranch house and then passed on  to douse with white the figures of three men standing by the fire.  Through the electelscope the pirate chief saw them wave their arms in  greeting.    Ten minutes later the two ships nestled down close together a hundred  yards or more from the ranch clearing, and Judd said to his mate,  standing next to him:    "We'll have a little celebration to-night. Break out a few cases of  alkite and send three of the boys to the ranch's storeroom after meat  for the cook to barbecue."    "What you goin' to do with them two?" the other asked.    "Carse and the nig? Keep them here in the control cabin; I'll detail a  couple of men to guard them. I'm taking no chances: they must be in  sight every minute. Carse is too damned dangerous." He peered back at  the captives. The trader's eyes were shut; Friday still appeared  unconscious from the brutal blow on his head. "Asleep. Well, they'd  better sleep--while they have eyelid's to close!" Judd said mockingly,  and his mate laughed in appreciation of his wit. 
