 Carse switched off the light. His voice was but faintly audible.    "Coming down to clean off the dust. He'll have a flash. Hide behind  the truss-work at your side, and when he gets here seize him by the  neck. I'll be with you right away. I want no noise."    Friday saw a great light, and grinned in the confidence it brought  him. Of course! That explained the rope. The plan was so simple it had  escaped him. Already he felt cheerful. It was only mental worries, and  never physical hazards, that unsettled him. He angled around the  truss-work and shrank into as small a space as possible--which wasn't  very small, as he still wore his bulky, clumsy suit.    The clump-clump of feet had died: now there came the sound of the  man-hole aft being raised. A white beam pronged down into the  darkness, felt around and flicked off. Boots clanged on the connecting  ladder; reached the bottom. The light appeared again, lower now, and  came slowly forward. Limned faintly against the reflected light was  the outline of a crouching man's body.    He went to hands and knees and progressed carefully, his flash darting  to left and right. Suddenly, in a certain light, the two who awaited  his coming saw a swarthy, black-stubbled face in profile. He wore no  space-suit! That meant, Friday reflected, that the brigands had  cleared the ship of the gas in some way. It meant that they could get  out of their own suits.    But they could not possibly do so at the moment. They heard the nearby  pirate's breathing, a harsh oath as he stubbed a toe. The negro  tightened his giant arms and held himself ready, his eyes steady on  the black outline which signified his quarry. Then the pirate was  close enough.    It was over in seconds. Rounding the truss, Friday caught the man in  the armored crook of his arm. A startled croak preluded the thump of  two bodies on the hull; there was the tinkle of a falling hand-flash  and a slight squirming which was quickly stopped by a belting punch.    *       *       *       *       * 
