  Two hours later their eyes were taking in a fantastic, mad scene, one  that in some ways might have occurred in the days when buccaneers  roamed the Spanish Main of Earth.    A little over a hundred yards away, straight before them, was the  corral of the phantis: far behind it encroached the shadowy fringe of  the jungle: to their right, closer to the corral than to the space  ships, was the ranch house, lonely now and silent. But these objects  were only the background for what had grown in front of the corral  wire.    It was the roaring mass of the monster fire that had been lit, a  splash of fierce, leaping flames in the velvety cool of the night.  Black shapes were clustered around it; bottles were raised and  drained; and a frieze of shadows, staggered and jumped and danced  around the ruddy pile of fire. The carousal was in full swing; a  chorus of wild song rose noisily into the night; more cases were  smashed open and more alkite drawn out. The carcases of three animals  taken from the ranch's storehouse sizzled on the barbecue pits, to be  ripped apart and the rich, dripping meat torn at, tooth and claw. Ever  higher pierced the shrieks and oaths, till the calm night was  distorted and crazy.    Other heavier sounds accompanied the bedlam of human noise: deep  snortings and roarings and the scraping of scores of horn-shod feet.  Behind their wired electric fence was clustered the herd of phantis,  staring with their evil, red-shot little eyes at the flames and the  shapes of the hated men. The big bulls were bellowing, bucking their  heads angrily, churning up the soft soil with their strong,  dagger-spurred feet: the welter of noise and the sight of so many men  had wrought them up into a vicious and dangerous state.    Judd the Kite, a bottle in one hand and in the other a huge joint of  meat which he was tearing at with his teeth, suddenly paused with  mouth crammed full and stared over through the flickering light at the  phanti corral. A cruel light gleamed in his eyes: he gulped down the 
