_To the Laboratory_      When the Negro returned, panting, with Ban Wilson, it was to discover  Carse in the control room of the asteroid. He was studying the  multifarious devices and instruments: and they, seeing his face so set  in concentration, did not disturb him, but went over to where Dr. Ku  Sui sat in a chair, and posted themselves behind it.    The apparatus in the control room resembled that of any modern  space-ship of its time, except that there were extra pieces of  unguessed function. Directly in front of Carse was the directional  space-stick above its complicated mechanism: above his eyes was the  wide six-part visi-screen, which in space would record the whole  "sphere" of the heavens: while to his right was the chief control  board, a smooth black surface studded with squads of vari-colored  buttons and lights, These were the essentials, familiar to any ship  navigator; but they were here awesome, for they controlled not the one  or two hundred feet of an ordinary craft, but twenty miles of this  space-ship of rock.    "Yes ... yes...." Carse murmured presently out of his study, then  turned and for the first time appeared to notice Friday and Ban. He  gave orders.    "Eclipse, you see the radio over there? Get Master Leithgow on it for  me--protected beam. Ban, you bind Dr. Ku Sui in that chair, please."    Wilson was surprised.    "Bind him? Isn't he going to run this thing?"    "No."    "_You're_ going to, Carse?"    "Yes. I don't quite trust Dr. Ku. The asteroid's controlled on the  same principles as a space-ship: I'll manage. Please hurry, Ban."    "Cap'n., suh! Already got the Master Scientist!" called Friday from  the radio panel. The Hawk strode swiftly to it and clamped the  individual receivers over his ears.    "M. S.?" he asked into the microphone. "You're there?"    "Yes. Carse? What's happened?"    "All's well, but I'm in a tremendous hurry: I've only got time, now,  to tell you we're on the asteroid with Dr. Ku prisoner, and that I'm  undertaking to transplant the coordinated brains into living human 
