 miles long, it must be! And that dome--"    "Yes," said the Hawk shortly, "but easy on that now. We've work to do,  and it's got to be done quickly. Now listen:    "There are two main port-locks in the dome for space-ships, and the  starboard one has a smaller man-size lock beside it. We're going to  the smaller one. There'll no doubt be a guard on watch at it, so to  him we're Ku Sui and the two men who accompanied him. We'll have to  chance recognition; but at least there's no difference in the suits  we're wearing, and we'll clasp our glasses on all the way to the lock,  for surely Dr. Ku has to use some similar device. Keep your faces  averted as much as you can though, when near, and your rayguns in your  belts. If there's to be gunplay, leave the first shot to me. You'll  both follow me just as those two followed Dr. Ku."    Ban Wilson asked: "Will you go down into the valley between the trees,  then up the face of the rock? The guard wouldn't see us until we were  right at the lock."    "No, he wouldn't: but he'd wonder why Ku Sui was being so cautious.  We'll go straight across, in full view. We'll get in easily, or--well,  that depends. Ready?"    They fastened the glasses over their eyes, keeping the helmet  face-plates partly open. The rayguns they eased in their belt  holsters, and slid back the hinged palms of their mittens, to give  exit if need be to their gun-hands. They were ready.    Switching on the helmet gravity-plates to swift repulsion, the three  soared out of the trees, soared up on a straight, inclined line for  the dome on the asteroid, a steady, rapid climb that soon raised them  one mile, a second and a third, where they leveled off and sped  straight ahead. Now they could look right into the dome.    Rapidly the port-lock that was their objective grew in size. Behind it  were the buildings: the large, four-winged central structure and the  supplementary workshops and hangars, coolie-quarters and outhouses,  all dim and shimmering through the infra-red--the mysterious, lonely 
