    Although puzzled by the Hawk's promise, Leithgow could only put his  trust in it and go ahead with the preparations as he had been  directed. He took two of his three laboratory assistants off their  hurried manufacture of quantities of the V-27, and with Ku Sui went  out into the air-car. Passing by way of tube and lake and air, they  were quickly inside the dome on the asteroid, and then into Ku Sui's  laboratory, where Friday waited on guard.    Completely docile and friendly, the Eurasian indicated the various  instruments and devices he would need for the operations, and these  were transported quickly. Then came the case of coordinated brains.  Dr. Ku detached in connections with expert fingers, and all but  Leithgow took a corner and carried it with infinite care to the  air-car outside.    "Do I stay here, suh?" Friday asked the Master Scientist in a  whisper. Though informed of the change in Dr. Ku effected by the V-27,  he was still very suspicious of him. "Seems to me he's a bit too meek  and mild, suh. I think I ought to go down and watch him."    Eliot Leithgow did not quite know what answer to give. The Eurasian  forced the decision.    "I will need," he observed, in his new, frank voice, "all the  assistance you can possibly give me. I am faced by a tremendous task,  and the use of every man will be necessary. I would suggest, Master  Leithgow that the Negro be brought down."    And so Friday came and the asteroid was left unguarded. A mistake,  this turned out to be, but under the circumstances Eliot Leithgow  could hardly be blamed for it. There was so much on their minds, so  much work of vital importance, so desperate a need for speed, that  quite naturally other considerations were subordinated. The asteroid,  to the naked eye, was invisible; it could attract no attention; its  occupants had all been disposed of. Certainly it seemed safe enough to  leave it unguarded for a while.    However, Eliot Leithgow took one precaution. Down in his own  laboratory again, in the midst of the work of transferring Dr. Ku's 
