  It was to Hawk Carse that the news of imminent danger came first.    He had staggered from the laboratory into a sleeping room and, clad as  he was, fallen over into a berth. He would have wakened in a few  hours, such was his custom of years to four-hour watches on ships, but  he was permitted less than an hour of sleep. A hand pulled at him; a  voice kept calling his name. Awareness returned to him slowly as his  brain roused from the coma of sleep.    "Captain Carse! Captain Carse! Wake up, sir!"    It was one of Leithgow's assistants, a man named Thorpe. His tone was  excited and his manner distraught.    "Yes?" the Hawk muttered thickly. "What is it?"    "It's the asteroid, sir! I was instructed to watch it at intervals,  but I--I guess I fell asleep, and just now--"    Carse sat up. "Yes? What?"    "--when I looked, through the glasses--it was gone!"    "Gone? You're sure? Let me see."    Swiftly, Thorpe at his heels, Carse strode out from the room to a  cubby just off the laboratory, the watch-post, where observational  electelscopes and visi-screens provided a panorama of the surrounding  territory.    He gazed through the electelscope, which had been equipped with an  infra-red device and trained on the asteroid, and saw that now, where  the massive body of rock had been poised, there was nothing. Only the  brilliant light of mid-afternoon, the cloudless sky. Carse swept the  glass around. The search was fruitless. The heavens were bare. The  asteroid had gone.    In half a minute Carse had reasoned out the disappearance, saw the  consequences and made the inevitable decision. Gone was the torpor of  sleep, the weariness of the laboratory; this was a crisis, and this  was his work. During the operations, he had been able merely to obey  orders and do manual work. Now he assumed command.    "Your lapse has imperilled us all," he said curtly to Thorpe. "From  now on we're in great danger. Stay here and keep on watch, and sound  the alarm immediately if the asteroid reappears." 
