   Continually he was thrown into the rough wall at his right by the  centrifugal force of the asteroid. How far did the passageway extend?  Was Ku Sui at the end of it? It occurred to the Hawk that the asteroid  was a developing shooting star, eating up the few hundred miles of  life that remained, streaking down into the atmosphere, where waited  quick friction and incandescence--and he down in the heart of it,  blind, without clue to what lay in front of him, ignorant of  everything, and with only minutes in which to achieve his end. There'd  be no heat-warning through his insulated suit. Even now, perhaps,  there was no time to get out; already the deadline might have been  crossed; he could not know. He went on....    How far? A hundred yards; two hundred? Easily that, he thought, and  still no variation in the blackness around him! The passageway seemed  straight, so he might now be past the rim of the dome above.    Then, for just a second, he saw a faint wisp of light ahead!    Automatically Carse's raygun came up, but in the time that simple  motion took the light was gone and the blackness was as deep and  lifeless as before. But he was coming to something. He went on,  perhaps a little faster, hot to discover the last emergency resource  of Dr. Ku. He took no pains to avoid making noise, for he knew Ku Sui  could not hear him through the airless space between.    After another hundred yards or so the light from ahead winked again.  It was stronger. Only a second of it, but he now suspected that it  came at regular intervals. It was a machine, perhaps, working under  the hands of the Eurasian. On--on! With the seconds fleeting by,  building to the small total which would bring friction to the  asteroid, and incandescence, and scalding death for him within it!    Again, suddenly, the mysterious light. It left instantly as usual, but  not before it revealed, well ahead, the end of the passage. Quickly he  traversed the remaining distance and felt around with his hands. He  found what he half expected. There was an opening, a doorway, to his 
