 like restless antennae, now stabbing to the right to dissolve a  formless shadow, now to the left to throw into blinding white relief a  school of half-transparent fish which scurried with frantic wrigglings  of tails from the glare, now slanting up to bathe the cold glassy face  of an inverted ice-hill, now down to dig two white holes in the deeper  gloom.    Ken continued this routine for hours. Steadily and low the electric  motor droned in the ears of the watchful pilot, and the stubby  propeller's blades flashed round in a blur of speed between the  slightly slanted rudders. Somewhere, miles away, a splintered  amphibian plane was slipping down to her last landing, and above,  perhaps, the white hell of storm which had brought her low still  bowled over the trackless wastes; but here were only shadows and  shifting gloom, straining the alert eyes to soreness and tensing the  watcher's brain with alarms that, one after another, were only false.    Until at last he found her.    Immediately he shut off all his lights. He no longer needed them. Far  in the distance, and below, wavered a faint yellow glow. It was no  fish; it could mean only one thing--the lights of a submarine.    And lights meant life! There would be none burning in a deserted  submarine. His heart beat fast and his tight, sober lips widened in a  quick grin. He had found the _Peary_! And found her with some life  still aboard her! He was in time!    So Ken rejoiced while he slid the torpoon down to a level just a few  feet above the silty sea bottom, reducing her to quarter-speed. There  was an urge inside him to switch on his bow-beams, reach them out  toward the submarine's hull to tell all within that help was at last  at hand; he wanted to send the torpoon ahead at full speed. But  caution restrained him to a more deliberate course. He was in the  realm of the sealmen, and he did not wish to attract the attention of  any. So he advanced like a furtive shadow slinking along the dark  sea-bottom, deep in the covering gloom.  
