water.    Gone in an instant was the shriek and fury of the storm and in its  place the calm, slow-heaving silence of underwater. The plane was  shattered in a dozen places, but the torpoon had easily stood it.    Ken turned to action. He switched on the torpoon's dashboard lights  and twin bow-beams, and saw that the shell was wedged in the fuselage.  The plane was apparently entirely under the surface, and her interior  filled with water.    Holding the propeller in neutral, he revved up the powerful electric  motor. Then he bit the propeller in, slowly. The torpoon nudged back  for inches. Then, throwing the gear into forward, Ken gave her full  speed. The torpoon leaped ahead, crunched through the weakened corner  ahead and was free.    It was a world of drab tones that she came into. Down below was  impenetrable blackness, shading softly overhead into blue-gray which  was mottled by lighter areas from breaks in the floes above. All was  calm. There was no sign of life save for an occasional vague shadow  that, melting swiftly away, might have been a fish or seaweed. Placid  always, would be this shrouded sea of mystery, no matter what furious  tempest raged above over the flat leagues of ice and water.    But the seeming peacefulness was but a mask for danger. Kenneth  Torrance's face was set in sober lines as he sped the slim torpoon  northward, her bow lights shafting long white fingers before her. For  now there was only one path--and that lay ahead. He could not turn  back. Storm and water had destroyed the plane that could take him back  to land. He could not possibly reach any outpost of civilization in  the torpoon, for her cruising radius was only twenty hours. He had  planned to land the amphibian on the ice above the spot where the  _Peary_ had disappeared, then find a break in the ice and slide down  below in the torpoon on his quest--to return to the plane if it proved  fruitless. But now there was no retreat. It was succeed, or die.    And with that realization a more dreadful thought flashed into his  
