And the sea-suits. He had struggled for them and had saved them, but  what use could he put them to? Go out leading a desperate final sally  for the hole in the ice above? Death in minutes!    No hope. Nothing. Not even a fighting chance. These seal-creatures,  strange seed of the Arctic ice, had trapped the _Peary_ all too well.  On the roll of mysteriously missing ships would her name go down; and  he, Ken Torrance, would be considered a lunatic who had sought  suicide, and found it....    *       *       *       *       *    Of the twenty-one survivors of the _Peary's_ officers and crew, only a  dozen had the will to watch the inexorable advance of the sealmen. The  rest lay in various attitudes on the deck of the rear compartment,  showing no sign of life save torturous, shallow pantings for air and,  occasionally, spasmodic clutchings at their throats and chests, as  they tried to fight off the deadly, invisible foe that was slowly  strangling them.    Ken Torrance, Sallorsen, the scientist, Lawson, and a few others were  pressed together at the last watertight door, peering through the  quarsteel at the sea-creatures' systematic assault on the door leading  into the third compartment. A straight, hard smash at it; another  final splintering smash--and again the torpoon pushed through in the  van of a cascade of icy, greenish water, which quickly claimed the  control compartment for the attackers behind. The creatures were  growing bolder. More and more of them had entered the submarine, and  soon each open compartment was filled from deck to ceiling with the  slowly turning, graceful brown bodies, inspecting minutely the  countless wheels and levers and gauges, and inspecting also, in  turns, the pale, worn faces that stared with dull eyes at them  through the sole remaining door.    There was no further retreat, now. Behind was only water and the swarm  that passed to and fro through it. Water and sealmen--ahead, above, to  the sides, behind--everywhere. Cooped in their transparent cell, the 
