A ghostly gray haze of light filtered downward through the water from  the hole. Ken counted twelve figures making their way to it. As he  wondered about the rest of the crew, he saw three bulging, swaying  shapes suddenly emerge from the split in the top of the _Peary_, and  begin an easy rise toward the ice ceiling ninety feet above. There was  no apparent danger, and they went up quite slowly, with occasional  brief pauses to avoid the risk of the bends. Clasped together, the  group of three were, and when they were halfway to the glassy ceiling  of the ice, three more left the rent in the submarine and followed  likewise. Twelve men were at the top; six others were swimming up;  three more were yet to leave the submarine--and after they had  abandoned her, he, Ken, would follow with the torpoon and the food it  contained.    So he thought, watching from where he lay, down below, and there was  in him a great weariness after the triumph so bitterly fought for had  been achieved. He rested through minutes of quiet and relaxation,  watching what he had brought about; but only minutes--for suddenly  without warning all security was gone.    From out the murky shadows to the left a sleek shape came flashing  with great speed, to jerk Ken Torrance's eyes around and to widen them  with quick alarm.    A sealman! A sealman alive, and moving--and vengeful! A sealman which  the explosion of nitromite had not reached!    Doubtless the lone creature was surprised upon seeing all its fellows  motionless, drifting like corpses upward, and the men of the _Peary_  escaping. With graceful, beautiful speed, a liquid streak, it flashed  into the scene, eeling up and around and down, trying to understand  what extraordinary thing had happened. But finally it slowed down and  hovered some thirty feet directly above the dark hull of the _Peary_.    The men rising toward the ice had seen the sealman at the same time  Ken Torrance had, and at once increased their efforts, fearing  immediate attack. Quickly the two groups shot to the top where the  other twelve were, and began a desperate fumbling progress over toward 
