look through people without seeing them. There was a buzz of conversation  as the people began to talk together of the decided novelty in the line  of conference-meeting exhortations to which they had just listened. The  tone of almost all was sympathetic, though many were shocked and pained,  and others declared that they did not understand what he had meant. Many  insisted that he must be a little out of his head, calling attention to  the fact that he looked so pale. None of these good hearts were half so  much offended by anything heretical in the utterances of the young man as  they were stirred with sympathy for his evident discouragement. Mr. Lewis  was perhaps the only one who had received a very distinct impression of  the line of thought underlying his words, and he came walking down the  aisle with his head bent and a very grave face, not joining any of the  groups which were engaged in talk. Henry Burr was standing near the door,  his hat in his hand, watching Madeline out of the corners of his eyes, as  she closed the melodeon and adjusted her shawl.    "Good-evening, Henry," said Mr. Lewis, pausing beside the young man. "Do  you know whether anything unpleasant has happened to George lately to  account for what he said to-night?"    "I do not, sir," replied Henry.    "I had a fancy that he might have been slighted by some one, or given the  cold shoulder. He is very sensitive."    "I don't think any one in the village would slight him," said Henry.    "I should have said so too," remarked the minister, reflectively. "Poor  boy, poor boy! He seems to feel very badly, and it is hard to know how to  cheer him."    "Yes, sir--that is--certainly," replied Henry incoherently, for  Madeline was now coming down the aisle.    In his own preoccupation not noticing the young man's, Mr. Lewis passed  out.    As she approached the door Madeline was talking animatedly with another  young lady.    "Good-evening," said Henry.    "Poor fellow!" continued Madeline to her companion, "he seemed quite  hopeless."    
