observed the silence, would remark: "There is yet opportunity. . . . .  Time is passing, brethren. . . . . Any brother or sister. . . . . We  shall be glad to hear from any one." Farmer Bragg, tired with his day's  hoeing, snored quietly in the corner of a seat. Mrs. Parker dropped a  hymn-book. Little Tommy Blake, who had fallen over while napping and hit  his nose, snivelled under his breath. Madeline Brand, as she sat at the  melodeon below the minister's desk, stifled a small yawn with her pretty  fingers. A June bug boomed through the open window and circled around  Deacon Tuttle's head, affecting that good man with the solicitude  characteristic of bald-headed persons when buzzing things are about. Next  it made a dive at Madeline, attracted, perhaps, by her shining eyes, and  the little gesture of panic with which she evaded it was the prettiest  thing in the world; at least, so it seemed to Henry Burr, a  broad-shouldered young fellow on the back seat, whose strong, serious  face is just now lit up by a pleasant smile.    Mr. Lewis, the minister, being seated directly under the clock, cannot  see it without turning around, wherein the audience has an advantage of  him, which it makes full use of. Indeed, so closely is the general  attention concentrated upon the time-piece, that a stranger might draw  the mistaken inference that this was the object for whose worship the  little company had gathered. Finally, making a slight concession of  etiquette to curiosity, Mr. Lewis turns and looks up at the clock, and,  again facing the people, observes, with the air of communicating a piece  of intelligence, "There are yet a few moments."    In fact, and not to put too fine a point upon it, there are five minutes  left, and the young men on the back seats, who attend prayer-meetings to  go home with the girls, are experiencing increasing qualms of alternate  hope and fear as the moment draws near when they shall put their fortune  to the test, and win or lose it all. As they furtively glance over at the  girls, how formidable they look, how superior to common affections, how 
