but he never again will have such sense of absolute right and eternally  foreordained ownership in any thing as he had long years ago in that  sweet girl whom some other fellow married. For, alas! this seemingly  inviolable divine title is really no security at all. Love is liable to  ten million suits for breach of warranty. The title-deeds he gives to  lovers, taking for price their hearts' first-fruits, turn out no titles  at all. Half the time, title to the same property is given to several  claimants, and the one to finally take possession is often enough one who  has no title from love at all.    Henry had been hit hard, but there was a dogged persistence in his  disposition that would not allow him to give up till he had tested his  fortune to the uttermost. His love was quite unmixed with vanity, for  Madeline had never given him any real reason to think that she loved him,  and, therefore, the risk of an additional snub or two counted for nothing  to deter him. The very next day he left the shop in the afternoon and  called on her. Her rather constrained and guarded manner was as if she  thought he had come to call her to account, and was prepared for him. He,  on the contrary, tried to look as affable and well satisfied as if he  were the most prosperous of lovers. When he asked her if she would go out  driving with him that afternoon, she was evidently taken quite off her  guard. For recrimination she was prepared, but not for this smiling  proposal. But she recovered herself in an instant, and said--    "I'm really very much obliged. It is very considerate of you, but my  mother is not very well this afternoon, and I feel that I ought not to  leave her." Smothering a sick feeling of discouragement, he said, as  cheerfully as possible--    "I'm very sorry indeed. Is your mother seriously sick?"    "Oh no, thank you. I presume she will be quite well by morning."    "Won't you, perhaps, go to-morrow afternoon, if she is better? The river  road which you admire so much is in all its midsummer glory." 
