Far, however, from appearing discomposed thereby, he returned it with  such interest that at least half the girls thought they had captivated  him by the end of the morning service. They all agreed that he was  awfully handsome, though Laura maintained that he was rather too pretty  for a man. He was certainly very pretty. His figure was tall, slight, and  elegant. He had delicate hands and feet, a white forehead, deep blue,  smiling eyes, short, curly, yellow, hair, and a small moustache, drooping  over lips as enticing as a girl's. But the ladies voted his manners yet  more pleasing than his appearance. They were charmed by his easy  self-possession, and constant alertness as to details of courtesy. The  village beaus scornfully called him "cityfied," and secretly longed to be  like him. A shrewder criticism than that to which he was exposed would,  however, have found the fault with Cordis's manners that, under a show of  superior ease and affability, he was disposed to take liberties with his  new acquaintances, and exploit their simplicity for his own  entertainment. Evidently he felt that he was in the country.    That very first Sunday, after evening meeting, he induced Fanny Miller,  at whose father's house he boarded, to introduce him to Madeline, and  afterward walked home with her, making himself very agreeable, and  crowning his audacity by asking permission to call. Fanny, who went along  with them, tattled of this, and it produced a considerable sensation  among the girls, for it was the wont of Newville wooers to make very  gradual approaches. Laura warmly expressed to Madeline her indignation at  the impudence of the proceeding, but that young lady was sure she did not  see any harm in it; whereupon Laura lost her temper a little, and hinted  that it might be more to her credit if she did. Madeline replied  pointedly, and the result was a little spat, from which Laura issued  second best, as people generally did who provoked a verbal strife with  Madeline. Meanwhile it was rumoured that Cordis had availed himself of  the permission that he had asked, and that he had, moreover, been seen  talking with her in the post-office several times.    The drug-store being next door to the post-office, it was easy for him, 
