elsewhere.    And so, while half the village was agog over the flirtation of the new  drug-clerk with Madeline Brand, and Laura was lying awake nights fretting  about it, Henry went gaily to and from his work in a state of blissful  ignorance. And it was very blissful. He was exultant over the progress he  had made in his courtship at the picnic. He had told his love--he had  kissed her. If he had not been accepted, he had, at least, not been  rejected, and that was a measure of success quite enough to intoxicate so  ardent and humble a lover as he. And, indeed, what lover might not have  taken courage at remembering the sweet pity that shone in her eyes at the  revelation of his love-lorn state? The fruition of his hopes, to which he  had only dared look forward as possibly awaiting him somewhere in the dim  future, was, maybe, almost at hand. Circumstances combined to prolong  these rose-tinted dreams. A sudden press of orders made it necessary to  run the shop till late nights. He contrived with difficulty to get out  early one evening so as to call on Madeline; but she had gone out, and he  failed to see her. It was some ten days after the picnic that, on calling  a second time, he found her at home. It chanced to be the very evening of  the day on which the conversation between Madeline and Cordis, narrated  in the last chapter, had taken place.    She did not come in till Henry had waited some time in the parlour, and  then gave him her hand in a very lifeless way. She said she had a bad  head-ache, and seemed disposed to leave the talking to him. He spoke of  the picnic, but she rather sharply remarked that it was so long ago that  she had forgotten all about it. It did seem very long ago to her, but to  him it was very fresh. This cool ignoring of all that had happened that  day in modifying their relations at one blow knocked the bottom out of  all his thinking for the past week, and left him, as it were, all in the  air. While he felt that the moment was not propitious for pursuing that 
