"Don't put it on that ground," said Henry, "it's sheer vanity that makes  you say so. You know your faults are just big enough to be beauty-spots,  and that's why you'd rather keep 'em."    She reflected a moment, and then said, decisively--    "That's a compliment. I don't believe I like 'em from you. Don't make me  any more."    Perhaps she did not take the trouble to analyse the sentiment that  prompted her words. Had she done so, she would doubtless have found it in  a consciousness when in his presence of being surrounded with so fine and  delicate an atmosphere of unspoken devotion that words of flattery sounded  almost gross.    They paused before a gate. Pushing it open and passing within, she said,  "Good-night."    "One word more. I have a favour to ask," he said. "May I take you to the  picnic?"    "Why, I think no escort will be necessary," she replied; "we go in broad  daylight; and there are no bears or Indians at Hemlock Hollow."    "But your basket. You'll need somebody to carry your basket."    "Oh yes, to be sure, my basket," she exclaimed, with an ironical accent.  "It will weigh at least two pounds, and I couldn't possibly carry it  myself, of course. By all means come, and much obliged for your  thoughtfulness."    But as she turned to go in she gave him a glance which had just enough  sweetness in it to neutralize the irony of her words. In the treatment of  her lovers, Madeline always punctured the skin before applying a drop of  sweetness, and perhaps this accounted for the potent effect it had to  inflame the blood, compared with more profuse but superficial  applications of less sharp-tongued maidens.    Henry waited until the graceful figure had a moment revealed its charming  outline against the lamp-lit interior, as she half turned to close the  door. Love has occasional metaphysical turns, and it was an odd feeling  that came over him as he walked away, being nothing less than a rush of  thankfulness and self-congratulation that he was not Madeline. For, if he  had been she, he would have lost the ecstasy of loving her, of 
