"So would I, Tom; I want a little exercise," urged Henry with a  hypocritical grin, as he stood up in an attitude of readiness.    "Oh, I like to row. 'I'd a great deal rather. Honestly," asseverated Tom,  as he made the water foam with the violence of his strokes, compelling  Henry to resume his seat to preserve his equilibrium.    "It's perfectly plain that you don't want to sit by me, Tom. That hurts  my feelings," said Madeline, pretending to pout.    "Oh no, it isn't that," protested Tom. "Only I'd rather row; that is, I  mean, you know, it's such fun rowing."    "Very well, then," said Madeline, "I sha'n't help you any more; and here  they all are tying their boats on to ours."    Sure enough, one of the other boats had fastened its chain to the stern  of theirs, and the others had fastened to that; their oarsmen were lying  off and Tom was propelling the entire flotilla.    "Oh, I can row 'em all just as easy's not," gasped the devoted youth, the  perspiration rolling down his forehead.    But this was a little too bad, and Henry soon cast off the other boats,  in spite of the protests of their occupants, who regarded Tom's brawn and  muscle as the common stock of the entire party, which no one boat had a  right to appropriate.    On reaching Hemlock Hollow, Madeline asked the poor young man for his  hat, and returned it to him adorned with evergreens, which nearly  distracted him with bashfulness and delight, and drove him to seek a  safety-valve for his excitement in superhuman activity all the rest of  the morning, arranging croquet sets, hanging swings, breaking ice,  squeezing lemons, and fetching water.    "Oh, how thirsty I am!" sighed Madeline, throwing down her croquet  mallet.    "The ice-water is not yet ready, but I know a spring a little way off  where the water is cold as ice," said Henry.    "Show it to me this instant," she cried, and they walked off together,  followed by Ida Lewis's unhappy eyes.    The distance to the spring was not great, but the way was rough, and once 
