"If you'd like to, you may."    Henry was not in the least a conceited fellow, but it was impossible that  he should not understand the reason why Ida, who all the morning had  looked forlorn enough, was now the life of the croquet-ground, and full  of smiles and flushes. She was a good player, and had a corresponding  interest in beating, but her equanimity on the present occasion was not  in the least disturbed by the disgraceful defeat which Henry's  awkwardness and absence of mind entailed on their aide.    But her portion of sunshine for that day was brief enough, for Madeline  soon returned from her boat-ride, and Henry found an excuse for leaving  the game and joining her where she sat on the ground between the knees of  a gigantic oak sorting pond-lilies, which the girls were admiring. As he  came up, she did not appear to notice him. As soon as he had a chance  to speak without being overheard, he said, soberly--    "Tom ought to thank me for that boat-ride, I suppose."    "I don't know what you mean," she answered, with assumed carelessness.    "I mean that you went to punish me."    "You're sufficiently conceited," she replied. "Laura, come here; your  brother is teasing me."    "And do you think I want to be teased to?" replied that young lady,  pertly, as she walked off.    Madeline would have risen and left Henry, but she was too proud to let  him think that she was afraid of him.. Neither was she afraid, but she  was confused, and momentarily without her usual self-confidence. One  reason for her running off with Tom had been to get a chance to think. No  girl, however coolly her blood may flow, can be pressed to a man's  breast, wildly throbbing with love for her, and not experience some  agitation in consequence. Whatever may be the state of her sentiments,  there is a magnetism in such a contact which she cannot at once throw  off. That kiss had brought her relations with Henry to a crisis. It had  precipitated the necessity of some decision. She could no longer hold him 
