  One morning a bitter thing happened to her. She had slept unusually well,  and her dreams had been sweet and serene, untinged by any shadow of her  waking thoughts, as if, indeed, the visions intended for the sleeping  brain of some fortunate woman had by mistake strayed into hers. For a  while she had lain, half dozing, half awake, pleasantly conscious of the  soft, warm bed, and only half emerged from the atmosphere of dreamland.  As at last she opened her eyes, the newly risen sun, bright from his  ocean bath, was shining into the room, and the birds were singing. A  lilac bush before the window was moving in the breeze, and the shadows of  its twigs were netting the sunbeams on the wall as they danced to and  fro.    The spirit of the jocund morn quite carried her away, and all  unthinkingly she bounded out into the room and, stood there with a smile  of sheer delight upon her face. She had forgotten all about her shame and  sorrow. For an instant they were as completely gone from her mind as if  they had never been, and for that instant nowhere did the sun's  far-reaching eye rest on a blither or more innocent face. Then memory  laid its icy finger on her heart and stilled its bounding pulse. The glad  smile went out, like a taper quenched in Acheron, and she fell prone upon  the floor, crying with hard, dry sobs, "O God! O God! O God!"    That day, and for many days afterward, she thought again and again of  that single happy instant ere memory reclaimed its victim. It was the  first for so long a time, and it was so very sweet, like a drop of water  to one in torment. What a heaven a life must be which had many such  moments! Was it possible that once, long ago, her life had been such an  one--that she could awake mornings and not be afraid of remembering? Had  there ever been a time when the ravens of shame and remorse had not  perched above her bed as she slept, waiting her waking to plunge their  beaks afresh into her heart? That instant of happiness which had been 
