CHAPTER X.      The next day he called at 79 ---- Street. There was a modest shingle  bearing the name "Dr. Gustav Heidenhoff" fastened up on the side of the  house, which was in the middle of a brick block. On announcing that he  wanted to see the doctor, he was ushered into a waiting-room, whose walls  were hung with charts of the brain and nervous system, and presently a  tall, scholarly-looking man, with a clean-shaven face, frosty hair, and  very genial blue eyes, deep set beneath extremely bushy grey eyebrows,  entered and announced himself as Dr. Heidenhoff. Henry, who could not  help being very favourably impressed by his appearance, opened the  conversation by saying that he wanted to make some inquiries about the  Thought-extirpation process in behalf of a friend who was thinking of  trying it. The doctor, who spoke English with idiomatic accuracy, though  with a slightly German accent, expressed his willingness to give him all  possible information, and answered all his questions with great apparent  candour, illustrating his explanations by references to the charts which  covered the walls of the office. He took him into an inner office and  showed his batteries, and explained that the peculiarity of his process  consisted, not in any new general laws and facts of physiology which he  had discovered, but entirely in peculiarities in his manner of applying  his galvanic current, talking much about apodes, cathodes,  catelectrotonus and anelectrotonus, resistance and rheostat, reactions,  fluctuations, and other terms of galvano-therapeutics. The doctor frankly  admitted that he was not in a way of making a great deal of money or  reputation by his discovery. It promised too much, and people  consequently thought it must be quackery, and as sufficient proof of this  he mentioned that he had now been five years engaged in practising the  Thought-extirpation process without having attained any considerable  celebrity or attracting a great number of patients. But he had a  sufficient support in other branches of medical practice, he added, and,  so long as he had patients enough for experimentation with the aim of  improving the process, he was quite satisfied.    He listened with great interest to Henry's account of Madeline's case. 
