"I think," said Henry, "that they would be very much puzzled what to do."    "Exactly," said the doctor; "I think so too. Such a case would bring out  clearly the utter confusion and contradiction in which the current  theories of ethics and moral responsibility are involved. It is time the  world was waked up on that subject. I should hugely enjoy precipitating  such a problem on the community. I'm hoping every day a murderer will  come in and require my services.    "There is another sort of case which I should also like to have," he  continued; shifting his cigar to the other side of his mouth, and  uncrossing and recrossing his knees. "Suppose a man has done another a  great wrong, and, being troubled by remorse, comes to me and has the  sponge of oblivion passed over that item in his memory. Suppose the man  he has wronged, pursuing him with a heart full of vengeance, gets him at  last in his power, but at the same time finds out that he has forgotten,  and can't be made to remember, the act he desires to punish him for."    "It would be very vexatious," said Henry..    "Wouldn't it, though? I can imagine the pursuer, the avenger, if a really  virulent fellow, actually weeping tears of despite as he stands before  his victim and marks the utter unconsciousness of any offence with which  his eyes meet his own. Such a look would blunt the very stiletto of a  Corsican. What sweetness would there be in vengeance if the avenger, as  he plunged the dagger in his victim's bosom, might not hiss in his ear,  'Remember!' As well find satisfaction in torturing an idiot or mutilating  a corpse. I am not talking now of brutish fellows, who would kick a stock  or stone which they stumbled over, but of men intelligent enough to  understand what vengeance is."    "But don't you fancy the avenger, in the case you supposed, would retain  some bitterness towards his enemy, even though he had forgotten the  offence?"    "I fancy he would always feel a certain cold dislike and aversion for  him," replied the doctor--"an aversion such as one has for an object 
