He had ado to control the impulse that prompted him to rise and leave the  table. And then, with that suddenness characteristic of highly wrought  moods, his feelings changed, and he discovered how soft-hearted his own  sorrow had made him toward all who suffered in the same way. His eyes  smarted with pitifulness as he noted the pains with which the little girl  opposite him had tried to make the most of her humble charms in the hope  of catching his eye. And the very poverty of those charms made her  efforts the more pathetic. He blamed his eyes for the hard clearness with  which they noted the shortcomings of the small, unformed features, the  freckled skin, the insignificant and niggardly contour, and for the  cruelty of the comparison they suggested between all this and Madeline's  rich beauty. A boundless pity poured out of his heart to cover and  transfigure these defects, and he had an impulse to make up to her for  them, if he could, by sacrificing himself to her, if she desired. If she  felt toward him as he toward Madeline, it were worth his life to save the  pity of another such heart-breaking. So should he atone, perhaps, for the  suffering Madeline had given him.    After tea he went by himself to nurse these wretched thoughts, and  although the sight of Ida had suggested them, he went on to think of  himself, and soon became so absorbed in his own misery that he quite  forgot about her, and, failing to rejoin the girls that evening, Ida had  to go home alone, which was a great disappointment to her. But it was,  perhaps, quite as well, on the whole, for both of them that he was not  thrown with her again that evening.    It is never fair to take for granted that the greatness of a sorrow or a  loss is a just measure of the fault of the one who causes it. Madeline  was not willingly cruel. She felt sorry in a way for Henry whenever his  set lips and haggard face came under her view, but sorry in a dim and  distant way, as one going on a far and joyous journey is sorry for the 
