"Excuse me, my dear sir. Acts merely express the character. The  recollection of those acts is what impresses the character, and gives it  a tendency in a particular direction. And that is why I say, if memory  were abolished, constitutionally bad people would remain at their  original and normal degree of badness, instead of going from bad to  worse, as they always have done hitherto in the history of mankind.  Memory is the principle of moral degeneration. Remembered sin is the most  utterly diabolical influence in the universe. It invariably either  debauches or martyrizes men and women, accordingly as it renders them  desperate and hardened, or makes them a prey to undying grief and  self-contempt. When I consider that more sin is the only anodyne for sin,  and that the only way to cure the ache of conscience is to harden it, I  marvel that even so many as do essay the bitter and hopeless way of  repentance and reform. In the main, the pangs of conscience, so much  vaunted by some, do most certainly drive ten deeper into sin where they  bring one back to virtue."    "But," remarked Henry, "suppose there were no memory, and men did forget  their acts, they would remain just as responsible for them as now."    "Precisely; that is, not at all," replied the doctor.    "You don't mean to say there is no such thing as responsibility, no such  thing as justice. Oh, I see, you deny free will. You are a  necessitarian."    The doctor waved his hand rather contemptuously.    "I know nothing about your theological distinctions; I am a doctor. I say  that there is no such thing as moral responsibility for past acts, no  such thing as real justice in punishing them, for the reason that human  beings are not stationary existences, but changing, growing, incessantly  progressive organisms, which in no two moments are the same. Therefore  justice, whose only possible mode of proceeding is to punish in present  time for what is done in past time, must always punish a person more or  less similar to, but never identical with, the one who committed the  offence, and therein must be no justice. 
