entire interview, at one moment carried away by the contagious confidence  of the doctor's tone, and impressed by his calm, clear, scientific  explanations and the exhibition of the electrical apparatus, and the next  moment reacting into utter scepticism and contemptuous impatience with  himself for even listening to such a preposterous piece of imposition. By  the time he had walked half a block, the sights and sounds of the busy  street, with their practical and prosaic suggestions, had quite  dissipated the lingering influence of the necromantic atmosphere of Dr.  Heidenhoff's office, and he was sure that he had been a fool.    He went to see Madeline that evening, with his mind made up to avoid  telling her, if possible, that he had made the appointment, and to make  such a report as should induce her to dismiss the subject. But he found  it was quite impossible to maintain any such reticence toward one in her  excited and peremptory mood. He was forced to admit the fact of the  appointment.    "Why didn't you make it in the forenoon?" she demanded.    "What for? It is only a difference of a few hours," he replied.    "And don't you think a few hours is anything to me?" she cried, bursting  into hysterical tears.    "You must not be so confident," he expostulated. "It scares me to see you  so when you are so likely to be disappointed. Even the doctor said he  could not promise success. It would depend on many things."    "What is the use of telling me that ?" she said, suddenly becoming very  calm. "When I've just one chance for life, do you think it is kind to  remind me that it may fail? Let me alone to-night."    The mental agitation of the past two days, supervening on so long a  period of profound depression, had thrown her into a state of agitation  bordering on hysteria. She was constantly changing her attitude, rising  and seating herself, and walking excitedly about. She would talk rapidly  one moment, and then relapse into a sudden chilled silence in which she  seemed to hear nothing. Once or twice she laughed a hard, unnatural laugh 
