his face under this terrible inquisition.    "Yes," said she, slowly, "I do remember your proposing she should come  and my not wanting her. I can't imagine why. I must have been out of my  head, as you say. Henry," she continued, regarding him with eyes of  sudden softness, "you must have been very good to me. Dr. Heidenhoff  could never make me forget that."    The next day her mother came. Henry met her at the station and explained  everything to her, so that she met Madeline already prepared for the  transformation, that is, as much prepared as the poor woman could be. The  idea was evidently more than she could take in. In the days that followed  she went about with a dazed expression on her face, and said very little.  When she looked at Henry, it was with a piteous mingling of gratitude and  appeal. She appeared to regard Madeline with a bewilderment that  increased rather than decreased from day to day. Instead of becoming  familiar with the transformation, the wonder of it evidently grew on her.  The girl's old, buoyant spirits, which had returned in full flow, seemed  to shock and pain her mother with a sense of incongruity she could not  get over. When Madeline treated her lover to an exhibition of her old  imperious tyrannical ways, which to see again was to him sweeter than the  return of day, her mother appeared frightened, and would try feebly to  check her, and address little deprecating remarks to Henry that were very  sad to hear. One evening, when he came in in the twilight, he saw  Madeline sitting with "her baby," as she had again taken to calling her  mother, in her arms, rocking and soothing her, while the old lady was  drying and sobbing on her daughter's bosom.    "She mopes, poor little mother!" said Madeline to Henry. "I can't think  what's the matter with her. We'll take her off with us on our wedding  trip. She needs a little change."    "Dear me, no, that will never do," protested the little woman, with her  usual half-frightened look at Henry. "Mr. Burr wouldn't think that nice  at all."    
