blown itself over half of creation. (This the E.T.I. Teams had surmised  from scientific records found on Eros, as well as from geophysical  evidence scattered throughout the other bodies.)    "I was child," she said again after a moment. "But I remember--I  remember things _different_ from this. Air ... heat ... light ... how do  I live here?"    Again I felt amazement at its intelligence; (and it suddenly occurred to  me that astronomy and nuclear physics must have been taught in Sorn's  "elementary schools"--else that _my years_ and _atom explosion_ would  have been all but impossible). And now this old, old creature,  remembering back three thousand years to childhood--probably to those  "elementary schools"--remembering, and defining the differences in  environment between _then_ and _now_; and more, wondering at its  existence in the different _now_--    And then I got my own thinking straightened out. I recalled some of the  things we had learned about the Zen.    Their average lifespan had been 12,000 years or a little over. So the  Zen before me was, by our standards, about twenty-five years old.  Nothing at all strange about remembering, when you are twenty-five, the  things that happened to you when you were seven ...    But the Zen's question, even my rationalization of my reaction to it,  had given me a chill. Here was no cuddly teddy bear.    This creature had been born before Christ!    She had been alone for three thousand years, on a chip of bone from her  dead world beneath a sepulchre of stars. The last and greatest Martian  civilization, the _L'hrai_, had risen and fallen in her lifetime. And  she was twenty-five years old.    "How do I live here?" she asked again.    I got back into my own framework of temporal reference, so to speak, and  began explaining to a Zen what a Zen was. (I found out later from Yurt  that biology, for the reasons which follow, was one of the most  difficult studies; so difficult that nuclear physics actually _preceded_  it!) I told her that the Zen had been, all evidence indicated, the  toughest, hardest, longest-lived creatures God had ever cooked up: 
