silence ...    I said, "I won't hurt you," again speaking in its own language.    The Zen moved away from the rock, but not away from me. It came a little  closer, actually, and peered up at my helmeted, mirror-glassed  head--unmistakably the seat of intelligence, it appears, of any race  anywhere. Its mouth, almost human-shaped, worked; finally words came. It  hadn't spoken, except to itself, for three thousand years.    "You ... are not Zen," it said. "Why--how do you speak Zennacai?"    It took me a couple of seconds to untangle the squeaking syllables and  get any sense out of them. What I had already said to it were stock  phrases that Yurt had taught me; I knew still more, but I couldn't  speak Zennacai fluently by any means. Keep this in mind, by the way: I  barely knew the language, and the Zen could barely remember it. To save  space, the following dialogue is reproduced without bumblings, blank  stares and _What-did-you-says_? In reality, our talk lasted over an  hour.    "I am an Earthman," I said. Through my earphones, when I spoke, I could  faintly hear my own voice as the Zen must have heard it in Vesta's all  but nonexistent atmosphere: tiny, metallic, cricket-like.    "Eert ... mn?"    I pointed at the sky, the incredible sky. "From out there. From another  world."    It thought about that for a while. I waited. We already knew that the  Zens had been better astronomers at their peak than we were right now,  even though they'd never mastered space travel; so I didn't expect this  one to boggle at the notion of creatures from another world. It didn't.  Finally it nodded, and I thought, as I had often before, how curious it  was that this gesture should be common to Earthmen and Zen.    "So. Eert-mn," it said. "And you know what I am?"    When I understood, I nodded, too. Then I said, "Yes," realizing that the  nod wasn't visible through the one-way glass of my helmet.    "I am--last of Zen," it said.    I said nothing. I was studying it closely, looking for the features 
