  My hair did _not_ stand on end, regardless of what you've heard me  quoted as saying. Why should it have, when I already knew Yurt so  well--considered him, in fact, one of my closest friends?    The Zen was standing by a rock, one paw resting on it, ears cocked  forward, its stubby hind legs braced ready to launch it into flight. Big  yellow eyes blinked unemotionally at the glare of the torch, and I cut  down its brilliance with a twist of the polarizer lens.    The creature stared at me, looking ready to jump halfway to Mars or  straight at me if I made a wrong move.    I addressed it in its own language, clucking my tongue and whistling  through my teeth: "Suh, Zen--"    In the blue-white light of the torch, the Zen shivered. It didn't say  anything. I thought I knew why. Three thousand years of darkness and  silence ...    I said, "I won't hurt you," again speaking in its own language.    The Zen moved away from the rock, but not away from me. It came a little  closer, actually, and peered up at my helmeted, mirror-glassed  head--unmistakably the seat of intelligence, it appears, of any race  anywhere. Its mouth, almost human-shaped, worked; finally words came. It  hadn't spoken, except to itself, for three thousand years.    "You ... are not Zen," it said. "Why--how do you speak Zennacai?"    It took me a couple of seconds to untangle the squeaking syllables and  get any sense out of them. What I had already said to it were stock  phrases that Yurt had taught me; I knew still more, but I couldn't  speak Zennacai fluently by any means. Keep this in mind, by the way: I  barely knew the language, and the Zen could barely remember it. To save  space, the following dialogue is reproduced without bumblings, blank  stares and _What-did-you-says_? In reality, our talk lasted over an  hour.    "I am an Earthman," I said. Through my earphones, when I spoke, I could  faintly hear my own voice as the Zen must have heard it in Vesta's all  but nonexistent atmosphere: tiny, metallic, cricket-like. 
