things we had learned about the Zen.    Their average lifespan had been 12,000 years or a little over. So the  Zen before me was, by our standards, about twenty-five years old.  Nothing at all strange about remembering, when you are twenty-five, the  things that happened to you when you were seven ...    But the Zen's question, even my rationalization of my reaction to it,  had given me a chill. Here was no cuddly teddy bear.    This creature had been born before Christ!    She had been alone for three thousand years, on a chip of bone from her  dead world beneath a sepulchre of stars. The last and greatest Martian  civilization, the _L'hrai_, had risen and fallen in her lifetime. And  she was twenty-five years old.    "How do I live here?" she asked again.    I got back into my own framework of temporal reference, so to speak, and  began explaining to a Zen what a Zen was. (I found out later from Yurt  that biology, for the reasons which follow, was one of the most  difficult studies; so difficult that nuclear physics actually _preceded_  it!) I told her that the Zen had been, all evidence indicated, the  toughest, hardest, longest-lived creatures God had ever cooked up:  practically independent of their environment, no special ecological  niche; just raw, stubborn, tenacious life, developed to a fantastic  extreme--a greater force of life than any other known, one that could  exist almost anywhere under practically any conditions--even floating in  midspace, which, asteroid or no, this Zen was doing right now.    The Zens breathed, all right, but it was nothing they'd had to do in  order to live. It gave them nothing their incredible metabolism couldn't  scrounge up out of rock or cosmic rays or interstellar gas or simply do  without for a few thousand years. If the human body is a furnace, then  the Zen body is a feeder pile. Maybe that, I thought, was what evolution  always worked toward.    "Please, will you kill me?" the Zen said.    *       *       *       *       * 
