the sunrise.    "But this couldn't possibly be Washington," he finally said in a puzzled  tone. "Why, we crossed the California coast only half an hour ago. Even  at 1200 miles an hour we couldn't be almost there."    The engineer's smile broadened into a friendly grin: "No, we're not  anywhere near Washington. But in a couple of minutes you'll see Cephalon  and that's as far as we go. One professor and 15 tons of termites to be  flown from Wallabawalla Mission station, Northern Territory, Australia,  to Cephalon, Arizona, U.S.A., one way direct. Those are our  instructions. Say, this is the queerest cargo I've ever flown, doctor,  if you don't mind my saying so."    Lee blinked. Removing his glasses which were fairly thick, he wiped them  carefully and put them on again as if to get a clearer picture of an  unexpected situation. His long fingered hand went through his greying  hair and then down the cheek which was sallow, stained with the atabrine  from his latest malaria attack and badly in need of a shave. His mouth  formed a big "O" of surprise as nervously he said:    "I don't get it. I don't understand this business at all. First the  Department of Agriculture extends an urgent letter of invitation to a  completely forgotten man out there in the Never-Never land. Then almost  on the heels of the letter the government sends a plane. I would have  been glad to mail to the Department samples of "Ant-termes Pacificus"  sufficient for most scientific purposes if they needed them for  experiments in termite control; that would have been the simple and the  sensible thing to do. But no, they want everything I have; you fellows  drop out of the sky with a sort of habeas corpus and a whole wrecking  crew. You disturb the lives of my species, which took me ten years to  breed; you pack up their mounds lock, stock and barrel. And then you  drop me at some place I never even heard about--Cephalon. What is this  Cephalon, anyway? If the place had any connotations to entomology, I  would have known about it...."    *       *       *       *       * 
