just barely see and hear the rhythm of the beat."    "I see."    Fascinated by the dance of the green line Lee said absently, "This  touches upon another question I had in mind; The Brain is expanding,  that is, new cell groups and circuits are constantly being added.  Right?"    "Right."    "I also understand that The Brain is learning all the time. The cerebral  mantle evolves through being worked; its cells enriched by the material  submitted to them for processing; the richer the material, the richer  their yield. Right?"    "Right."    "Okay; then what becomes of the new capacity which is being created by  the adding of new workshops and the increased efficiency of the old  ones? Is there a corresponding expansion of the apperception centers?"    Gus' smiling face suddenly turned serious. There was surprise mingled  with respect in his voice as he said:    "Now there you've hit upon a funny thing, Aussie. I've been wondering  about that myself of late: where does the new capacity go? Even the big  shots like Dr. Scriven begin to ask questions about that; they don't  seem rightly to know. They must have gotten their wires crossed  somewhere; the new capacity is there all right, only it doesn't show up,  it sort of evaporates.... Excuse me--"    Gus darted off to the front room with a jackrabbitt start. Voices were  calling for him and fingers were drumming on the counter with the  impatience of thirsty drinkers at a bar: Maintenance engineers, piling  in and slapping down their orders for Gus to fill. This was the rush  hour; Lee knew that it would be the same in all the tool and spare part  distribution centers of The Brain. He probably couldn't talk to Gus  again before 2 A.M. Sometimes the ruthlessness with which he exploited  the kindness of his little friend made Lee feel pretty bad; but then his  hunger for more knowledge always won out over his shame.    To sit alone in the semidarkness of this egg-shaped little room with  strange and fascinating things to play with as he willed was the  fulfillment of a childhood dream. The dream had been of a night in the 
