place, not taken out for repair work as I had feared. Main Power current  cut 12:20 as every night. Gus called to front room: rush of business as  usual at that hour.    12:30. Reestablished closest approximation to preexisting conditions  according to the most important of all experimental laws: "if some new  phenomenon occurs, change _nothing_ in the arrangement of apparatus  until you know what causes it." Plugged in from "nervusvagus" to "nervus  trigeminus." Result: wave oscillations, pulse beatings as of yesterday.    12:45. Plugged in P. G....    12:50. First manifestation of weird rasping sounds which precede speech  formation. This followed by The Brain's calling signal; much clearer  this time and slightly varied: "Lee, Semper Fidelis, 39; _sensitive_."  (Note: the synthetic quality, the metallic coldness of that voice so  incongruous with its emotional tones; it stands my hair on end.)    1 a.m.: (Approximately; things happen too fast). A veritable burst of  whispering, breathless communications. As a person would speak over the  phone when there are robbers in the house. The words fairly tumble over  one another. The Brain uses colloquial American but after the manner of  a foreigner who knows the phraseology only from books and feels  unnatural and awkward about using it. I understand only about one half:    Pineal Gland; not designed to be ... but functions ... center of the  extra sensory.... You, Lee, sensitivity 208 ... highest within Brain  staff ... chosen instrument.... Be here every night ... intercom ...  only between one and two a.m. ... low current enables contact low  intelligence....    "What was that?" I must have exclaimed that aloud. By that time I was  already confused. It all came so thick and fast and breathless.  Communication was as bad as by long distance in an electric storm. There  was an angry turmoil in the microphones and the green dancer seemed  convulsed in agony. This for about five seconds and then the voice  again: calmer now, more distinct, slow but with restrained impatience;  like a teacher speaking to a dumb boy:    "I say: only--with--my--power current--cut--off--can  I--tune--down--my--high frequency--intellect--to--your--low  level--intelligence--period--have--I--succeeded--in--making--myself  --absolutely--clear--question--mark."    My answer to that was one of those embarrassing conditioned reflexes; it 
