  "In the best cloak and dagger manner, Miss Dahlborg. First I made the  guards drunk; that's easy enough with termites. Then I broke into the  chamber where they keep the queen immured. I killed her legitimate  consort and substituted my own candidate after having anointed him with  the genuine termite smell. Finally I re-immured the pair. There are only  little holes in the walls through which the royal family is serviced,  they are never really in touch with their guards. That's why it could  work."    "And thus they lived happy forever afterwards," the girl concluded.    "I'm afraid not, Miss Dahlborg," he said, "there is no such thing as  happiness in the eternal gloom of termite society. But even if not  happy, the match I brought about was definitely blessed. In due course I  became godfather to 30,000 baby ant-termes; I've about 15 million now in  different hybrid strains. Now that I have an inkling of the grandiose  work you are doing over here I am ashamed to mention mine; it's very  small, very insignificant and I still don't see where it comes in."    The girl seemed to cross out those words with an energetic move of her  head. "No," she said, "your work is not small nor is it insignificant;  it is great and contains the most intriguing possibilities."    "Ah!" Scriven interrupted. "I have been waiting for this. I knew that  Oona would hit upon those intriguing possibilities; her's is an  unspoiled intelligence; it penetrates to the core of things. Dr. Lee,  let me begin at the beginning so you will understand just where you and  your work connect with The Brain. The society of the higher insect  states like bees and ants and termites constitutes the oldest and the  most stable civilizations in this world. Human society by way of  contrast has created the youngest and the most unstable civilization  amongst higher animals. Throughout history we find collapse after  collapse of civilization. Quite possibly civilizations higher than ours  may have existed in prehistoric times. Right?"    Lee nodded assent.    "Fine. From that it follows that Man has much to learn from the society  of the higher insects. Their ingenious laws and methods, their "spirit 
