the feel of his paper and the ideas he had hidden between the lines of  that manuscript.    *       *       *       *       *    The flow of observations processed by The Brain and pouring back to  Apperception 36 via teletype and visual screen was prodigious. Lee had  been forced to ask for an assistant; between the two of them they were  working for 20 out of the 24 hours to match the working time of The  Brain, charting results in the main.    Some of The Brain's findings had been most unexpected and rather  strange. It had observed, for instance, an increasing acidity of the  nasi-corn secretions with "_Ant-termes-pacificus_". Formidable as this  chemical artillery already was, in another ten thousand generations it  would eat through every known substance including glass and high-carbon  steel.    Another development which had escaped human observation, was a mutation  of the workers' mandibles; it went very fast. Within no more than maybe  a thousand generations they would double in size and strength, would  become veritable jumping tools.    While the bellicose spirit had been successfully bred out of the new  species, its capacities for material destructions had increased.  Likewise the appetite of "_Ant-termes_" was even more ferocious than  that of the older species; Lee was feeding all kinds of experimental  foods, but woodpulp remained the staple, the very stuff which in its  liquid form, lignin, embedded the nerve paths of The Brain.    Lifting his strained eyes from the charts, Lee looked over the row of  air conditioned glass cubicles wherein "_Ant-termes-pacificus_"  continued its lives undisturbed by the new habitat, undisturbed by the  rays which flowed over and through their bodies, unconscious that a  superhuman intelligence was probing steadily into every manifestation of  the mysterious collective brains of their race.    They had built their new mounds pointing due North as had their  ancestors for the past 100 million years. To the human eye nothing  betrayed the teeming life within except the tiny tunnels creeping out 
