the speedometer needle still edged over the 150 mark.    "Crazy? I hope not." The chauffeur said it coolly; leaning comfortably  back he turned around for a better look at his fare.    With mounting horror Lee noticed that he even took his hands off the  wheel. Nonchalantly he lit a cigarette while the unguided wheel milled  crazily from side to side and the tires screeched through what seemed to  be a sharp S-curve. Still with his back to the wheel and in between  satisfying puffs of his smoke he continued:    "It's quite O.K. sir; it's only that we're on the guidebeam now. This  here car doesn't need a driver no more; it's on the beam."    "What beam?" Lee relaxed a little; it was the unexpectedness which had  bowled him over. "What beam? And why the blackout?"    "Just orders," the young man said. "The Brain's orders and it's the  Brain's beam. Seems to be new to you, sir; to me it's like an old story;  read about it when I was a kid: how they blindfolded people who entered  a beleaguered fortress. "The Count of Monte Cristo," it was called; ever  heard about it? Pretty soon now we'll be stopped for examination before  we enter the secret passage underground. Romantic isn't it?"    "Very much so," Lee dryly remarked. He continued to watch the behavior  of the car with some misgivings. The controls appeared to be functioning  smoothly enough and after a minute or so the brake pedal came down all  by itself. Lee, with a breath of relief, saw the speedometer recede to  zero.    But the doors would not open from the inside and as he tried them he  found that they were locked. "What's the idea," he asked, "I thought you  said we would be examined at this spot?"    "Bet they're at it right now," the chauffeur grinned. "I wouldn't know  how they do it, but they get us photographed inside and outside, what we  have in our pockets, what we had for breakfast this morning and the very  bones of our skeletons. I pass through here maybe half a dozen times a  day, still they will do it every time: take my likeness. Makes me feel 
