Certain as he was that he looked rather like a scarecrow in a snowstorm  Lee felt grateful for the praise. Besides she was right; the boa  constrictor which he rode calmed down a little, marching with a dignity  more in accordance with its size. Momentarily the luminous nerve cables,  flying as they did toward him, threatened sudden death, however, they  merely brushed the transparent cylinder, wrapping it up in a rainbow and  then winged away again. Below acres of space streamed by, seed beds one  could imagine to be young typewriters, millions of them, all ticking  away with dainty precision, sparkling with myriads of tiny lights as  they did.    *       *       *       *       *    Then there came more acres teeming with fractional horsepower motors; he  could hear their beehive hummings even through the plexiglass. The  things they drove Lee couldn't make out because the adjoining acres of  this underground hothouse for mushrooming machines were again shrouded  in darkness except for sparks which crossed the unfathomable expanse  like tracer bullets. Struck with a sort of word blindness caused by the  sensory impressions barrage, Lee could no longer grasp the meaning of  Vivian's voice as it went on and on explaining things like "crystal  cells," "selenoid cells," "grey matter pyramidal cells," powered somehow  by atomic fission, "nerve loops" and "synthesis gates" which were not to  be confused with "analysis gates" while they looked exactly the same....    Apart from this at least one half of his mental and physical energy had  to be expanded in suppressing nausea and bracing himself against the  gyrations which still jerked his feet from under him and made friction  disks of his shoulders as his body swayed from side to side. All of a  sudden he felt that he was being derailed. There was an opening in the  plastics wall of the cylinder; a curved metal shield like the blade of a  bulldozer jumped into his path, caught him, slowed down his momentum and  delivered him safely at a door marked "Apperception-Center 24." It 
