rhythmically overflow or pulse into space. These energy streams  released, form vortexes while hurtling through space. Gradually they  slow down through friction and their dynamic energy precipitates,  converts into static energy, or, as we call it: matter.    This concept of The Brain's, of course, corresponds fairly closely to  the cosmogony of modern physics; but The Brain goes much farther than  that. Within a few days The Brain's cognitions appear to have arisen  above the stage toward which all our sciences have been so slowly and  ploddingly advanced for centuries. To the existing concepts The Brain  has added its own theory:    That matter, i.e. frozen energy, contains an inherent tendency or  "nostalgia" to revert to its original state, namely the state of dynamic  energy and that this tendency, this nostalgia in matter, is the primary  cause of everything we call "evolution" in our world.    That certainly is a grandiose idea; so stupendous in fact that I  couldn't grasp it all at once. The Brain noticed that immediately and it  was very patient in the way it explained:    How oxygen and hydrogen are "residuals" of the original dynamic energy  flow and how they act as solvents and dissolvents upon the upper crust  of our earth, effecting a gradual activation of water, rock and earth.    How this activation is being aided and accelerated by another source of  dynamic energy: irradiation from the sun. Thus preparing the upper crust  of our earth as a "placenta" ready to gestate plant and animal life.    How this first "unfreezing" of matter leads on from simple forms to  higher, every plant, every animal, every living thing being essentially  a "transformer" of static energy into dynamic energy and the higher the  stage of evolution, the more so.    How as the present culmination of the evolutionary chain stands man;  infinitely more complex and higher organized than the microbe, but not  different from the monad in the basic purpose of his life: i.e. to be a  transformer of energy, a fulfiller of matter's inherent will to revert  from the static into the dynamic state.    When I asked The Brain's premises for this astonishing concept of our 
