those tactile rays, why didn't they kill him when they had his heart  within their grip? Now that The Brain knew everything he had been  waiting for the sudden vise-grip of the rays upon his heart which would  have meant the end. But then, this was the end in any case....    The lights went on and he blinked into the faces of the medics bending  over him, watching him as he wiped the sweat of death fear from his  face.    "Dr. Lee," Mellish began, "This is a serious matter we've got to discuss  with you. You have seen those images yourself?--Fine. We needn't go into  any great detail since you are probably familiar with the ancient  symbolisms which the subconscious employs in expressing itself. You are  suffering from a very strong neurosis, Dr. Lee; I might almost say a  maniacal obsession. Existence of some old neurosis, partially submerged,  was established already in your first analysis. Now the barriers which  you had built against this war neurosis have broken down. Quite a  natural breakdown considering the very great stress under which you have  been living of late. No, I don't say that you are actually demented, but  there is a very real danger that you might lose complete control over  your mind. As it stands, your scientific work already is impaired by the  fixed ideas you have formed about The Brain. We are here to help you, so  please be calm and cooperate with us; we have got to decide upon some  course of action."    "You must get away from it all. Lee," Bondy chimed in; "Take a  sabbatical year. The Braintrust operates a really first-class sanitarium  out on the West Coast. Your insurance plan covers every expense. All you  have to do is to sign these papers and we'll get us a plane and I'll  personally bring you there. That's the safe, the sane course for you to  take. Here, take my pen."    Lee had raised his gaunt frame from the table. For a moment he sat with  his face buried in his hands trying to control his swimming head. A hand  patted his shoulders: "Don't take it so hard, old man; come on, be 
