"At present I am no more than a figurehead. If I were to give orders to  cut off The Brain's power, I would be court-martialed; if I would try  and force my way into the Atomic Powerplant, the guards would shoot me  on the spot. That's orders Lee. And they apply to you as well. Be  reasonable, man!"    Lee's fingers tore through his greying mane of hair.    "Scriven, this is maddening. I thought you knew what I know; I thought  you knew everything. Then let me tell you that you're absolutely wrong.  There is no technological, mechanical defect; it's worse, it's  infinitely worse: you've created a Frankenstein in The Brain. The  thing's alive; it's possessed with a destructive will, it demands the  unconditional surrender of Man; it has made itself the God of the  Machines. Behind all this there is a deep and evil plan by which The  Brain aspires to dictatorship over the world."    For a second Scriven jerked his head sideways, away from Lee in that  mannerism typical for him. His lips inaudibly formed words:  "dementia-praecox." As he turned back to Lee his face was changed and so  was his voice. There was calm and authority in it, the whole immense  superiority and power which the surgeon holds over the patient on the  operation table:    "Very interesting, Lee. You must tell me about it some day; as soon as  we are over this emergency. This tragic thing, Gus Krinsley's end. It  has had a deeply upsetting effect. I too, considered him my friend you  know. Let's get out of here, Lee, there's nothing we can do for the poor  fellow. The remains will be taken care of. Meanwhile, there are so many  other things to do and we've got to pull ourselves together and keep our  minds on the job ahead of us. Come on, at the communications center we  can get a drink. I feel the need of one, don't you? And apropos of  nothing, the routine checkups on the aptitude tests for all  Brain-employees are on again. I take it you are scheduled for Mellish's  and Bondy's office one of these days. This afternoon I think...."   
