The elevator brought them back to the communication center where the  Terminal Cafeteria was ablaze with lights and where Dr. Scriven,  received his honored guests.    The guests were seated after the manner of a French restaurant, all in  one row, and as they raised expectant faces in the direction of the  service entrance "Gog and Magog" entered the room carrying trays with  refreshments which they served with the skill and the dignity of  accomplished waiters.    Gog and Magog were products of two assembly lines down in the Thorax.  Robots, still in an experimental stage, yet of remarkable perfection.  Both of them were about human size and approximately human-shaped but  the design of the two was different. Gog, the "light-duty" robot,  balanced itself by a gyroscope on a pair of stumpy legs, while the  "heavy-duty" Magog crawled noiselessly and rapidly on caterpillar  rubbertracks like a miniature tank. Of both types the arms were  uncommonly long and simian-like, but the remarkable progress made in the  engineering of prothesis after the Second World War had lent them  perfect articulation and sensitivity down to the last hydraulically  operated fingerjoint.    The photoelectric cells of their eyes looked pale and repulsive; the  square audion-screens of their ears however made up for that by the  comical precision with which they turned in every direction at the sound  of a commanding human voice. Their understanding of any given order  appeared perfect.    "Congratulations, Dr. Scriven, you've got the country's servant problem  licked at last."    "I wonder whether one could buy one and how much he would be?"    "First waiter who ever came when I called him."    "What a butler Gog would make, the perfect Jeeves. Could he learn to  answer the phone?"    "I bet he would even make a fourth at bridge."    "Magog, the check please."    "See, how he understands. He shakes his head; he says it's on the  house."    "Let's try to tip him: Gog, here's fifty cents for you; no he won't take  it."    "He has no use for it, no taste for a glass of beer, I suppose." 
