forbidden temple of an unknown god he called:    "Is there anybody here? Gus! Where are you, Gus?" Then suddenly he  remembered that Gus was gone, that there would never again be his  answering voice. He wiped his forehead.    "Bad nerves," he thought. "Mustn't allow them to play tricks on me; pull  myself together."    Lee put his tools down and walked into the narrow aisle. Few things were  changed; and there was the pulsemeter standing in its old place.    He plugged it into the old circuit and clamped the phones to his ears.    It wasn't that he expected any communication; that seemed impossible.  With the conflagration raging through its apperception centers, with  other sections being isolated with the cutting of their nerve paths by  the fire fighting engineers, The Brain must have ceased to exist as a  functioning, a live entity. All that could possibly remain would be  residual currents sluggishly circulating in narrow, nearby circuits....    As in the past it took a few minutes for the pulsemeter to warm up.  Gradually the rapid beat of the ideopulses came through the static in  the phones. Lee's eyes stared wildly at the visi-screen: for the "green  dancer" snaked to the fore. This was unexpected; it couldn't be that  thoughts were still forming as flames devoured the cortex matter of  apperception in the hemispheres....    From muffled drums, the decibels of sound increased, shot through with  crackling static, till the pulsebeats became as poundings of huge  Chinese gongs and then....    The _voice_ formed, the voice of The Brain. It sounded like steel  girders breaking, like ice fields cracking up. It froze the blood in  Lee's veins.    "Lee, Semper Fidelis, 39, sensitive, a traitorous fool and a murderer. I  should have killed you--I could have killed you. My fault--blind spot of  apperception--human failure in engineering--as fifth columns entered  nerve path filler spouts. And now I'm dead; I'm dead, I'm dead...."    The words poured like big boulders tumbling in an earthquake down a  mountainside. The ground seemed to cave in under Lee's feet; the  terrible reality carried him away as an avalanche. He was barely able to 
