  "Right." He sounded relieved. Official people have a lot of confidence  in CIA; too much, in my estimation. Some day the job will come along  that we can't handle, and then Washington will be kicking itself--or,  more likely, some scapegoat--for having failed to develop a comparable  government department.    Not that there was much prospect of Washington's doing that. Official  thinking had been running in the other direction for years. The  precedent was the Associated Universities organization which ran  Brookhaven; CIA had been started the same way, by a loose corporation of  universities and industries all of which had wanted to own an ULTIMAC  and no one of which had had the money to buy one for itself. The  Eisenhower administration, with its emphasis on private enterprise and  concomitant reluctance to sink federal funds into projects of such size,  had turned the two examples into a nice fat trend, which ULTIMAC herself  said wasn't going to be reversed within the practicable lifetime of CIA.    *       *       *       *       *    I buzzed for two staffers, and in five minutes got Clark Cheyney and  Joan Hadamard, CIA's business manager and social science division chief  respectively. The titles were almost solely for the benefit of the  T/O--that is, Clark and Joan do serve in those capacities, but said  service takes about two per cent of their capacities and their time. I  shot them a couple of sentences of explanation, trusting them to pick up  whatever else they needed from the tape, and checked the line to the  divers' barge.    It was already open; Anderton had gone to work quickly and with decision  once he was sure we were taking on the major question. The television  screen lit, but nothing showed on it but murky light, striped with  streamers of darkness slowly rising and falling. The audio went  _cloonck_ ... _oing_, _oing_ ... _bonk_ ... _oing_ ... Underwater  noises, shapeless and characterless.    "Hello, out there in the harbor. This is CIA, Harris calling. Come in, 
