 explosives, radioactives, anything that might act up unexpectedly."    "All right," I said. "Go ahead."    "Well, there was a timer on the dump-cell floor, set to drop the egg  when the ship came up the river. That worked fine, but the automatic  bulkheads that are supposed to keep the rest of the ship from being  flooded while the cell's open, didn't. At least they didn't do a  thorough job. The _Ludmilla_ began to list and the captain yelled for  help. When the Harbor Patrol found the dump-cell open, they called us  in."    "I see." I thought about it a moment. "In other words, you don't know  whether the _Ludmilla_ really laid an egg or not."    "That's what I keep trying to explain to you, Dr. Harris. We don't know  what she dropped and we haven't any way of finding out. It could be a  bomb--it could be anything. We're sweating everybody on board the ship  now, but it's my guess that none of them know anything; the whole  procedure was designed to be automatic."    "All right, we'll take it," I said. "You've got divers down?"    "Sure, but--"    "We'll worry about the buts from here on. Get us a direct line from  your barge to the big board here so we can direct the work. Better get  on over here yourself."    "Right." He sounded relieved. Official people have a lot of confidence  in CIA; too much, in my estimation. Some day the job will come along  that we can't handle, and then Washington will be kicking itself--or,  more likely, some scapegoat--for having failed to develop a comparable  government department.    Not that there was much prospect of Washington's doing that. Official  thinking had been running in the other direction for years. The  precedent was the Associated Universities organization which ran  Brookhaven; CIA had been started the same way, by a loose corporation of  universities and industries all of which had wanted to own an ULTIMAC  and no one of which had had the money to buy one for itself. The  Eisenhower administration, with its emphasis on private enterprise and  concomitant reluctance to sink federal funds into projects of such size, 
