brash youngster who'd barged in on him and demanded the lowdown, and had  shown me considerable lengths of ropes not normally in view of the  public--nothing incriminating, but enough to give me a better insight  into how the union operated than I had had any right to expect--or even  suspect.    Hence I was surprised to hear somebody on the docks remark that Braun  was in the city over the week end. It would never have occurred to me  that he still interested himself in the waterfront, for he'd gone  respectable with a vengeance. He was still a professional gambler, and  according to what he had told the Congressional Investigating Committee  last year, took in thirty to fifty thousand dollars a year at it, but  his gambles were no longer concentrated on horses, the numbers, or shady  insurance deals. Nowadays what he did was called investment--mostly in  real estate; realtors knew him well as the man who had _almost_ bought  the Empire State Building. (The _almost_ in the equation stands for the  moment when the shoestring broke.)    Joan had been following his career, too, not because she had ever met  him, but because for her he was a type study in the evolution of what  she called "the extra-legal ego." "With personalities like that,  respectability is a disease," she told me. "There's always an  almost-open conflict between the desire to be powerful and the desire to  be accepted; your ordinary criminal is a moral imbecile, but people like  Braun are damned with a conscience, and sooner or later they crack  trying to appease it."    "I'd sooner try to crack a Timkin bearing," I said. "Braun's ten-point  steel all the way through."    "Don't you believe it. The symptoms are showing all over him. Now he's  backing Broadway plays, sponsoring beginning actresses, joining  playwrights' groups--he's the only member of Buskin and Brush who's  never written a play, acted in one, or so much as pulled the rope to  raise the curtain."    "That's investment," I said. "That's his business."    "Peter, you're only looking at the surface. His real investments almost  never fail. But the plays he backs _always_ do. They have to; he's 
