tale at the pay-off, working back to the hook, and winding up with a  sheaf of background facts to feed into the computer for Next Time. It's  rough on the various people who've tried to fictionalize what we  do--particularly for the lazy examples of the breed, who come to us  expecting that their plotting has already been done for them--but it's  inherent in the way we operate, and there it is.    Certainly nobody at CIA so much as thought of Braun when the news first  came through. Harry Anderton, the Harbor Defense chief, called us at  0830 Friday to take on the job of identifying the egg; this was when our  records show us officially entering the affair, but, of course, Anderton  had been keeping the wires to Washington steaming for an hour before  that, getting authorization to spend some of his money on us (our  clearance status was then and is now C&R--clean and routine).    I was in the central office when the call came through, and had some  difficulty in making out precisely what Anderton wanted of us. "Slow  down, Colonel Anderton, please," I begged him. "Two or three seconds  won't make that much difference. How did you find out about this egg in  the first place?"    "The automatic compartment bulkheads on the _Ludmilla_ were defective,"  he said. "It seems that this egg was buried among a lot of other crates  in the dump-cell of the hold--"    "What's a dump cell?"    "It's a sea lock for getting rid of dangerous cargo. The bottom of it  opens right to Davy Jones. Standard fitting for ships carrying  explosives, radioactives, anything that might act up unexpectedly."    "All right," I said. "Go ahead."    "Well, there was a timer on the dump-cell floor, set to drop the egg  when the ship came up the river. That worked fine, but the automatic  bulkheads that are supposed to keep the rest of the ship from being  flooded while the cell's open, didn't. At least they didn't do a  thorough job. The _Ludmilla_ began to list and the captain yelled for  help. When the Harbor Patrol found the dump-cell open, they called us 
