 It was already open; Anderton had gone to work quickly and with decision  once he was sure we were taking on the major question. The television  screen lit, but nothing showed on it but murky light, striped with  streamers of darkness slowly rising and falling. The audio went  _cloonck_ ... _oing_, _oing_ ... _bonk_ ... _oing_ ... Underwater  noises, shapeless and characterless.    "Hello, out there in the harbor. This is CIA, Harris calling. Come in,  please."    "Monig here," the audio said. _Boink_ ... _oing_, _oing_ ...    "Got anything yet?"    "Not a thing, Dr. Harris," Monig said. "You can't see three inches in  front of your face down here--it's too silty. We've bumped into a couple  of crates, but so far, no egg."    "Keep trying."    Cheyney, looking even more like a bulldog than usual, was setting his  stopwatch by one of the eight clocks on ULTIMAC's face. "Want me to take  the divers?" he said.    "No, Clark, not yet. I'd rather have Joan do it for the moment." I  passed the mike to her. "You'd better run a probability series first."    "Check." He began feeding tape into the integrator's mouth. "What's your  angle, Peter?"    "The ship. I want to see how heavily shielded that dump-cell is."    "It isn't shielded at all," Anderton's voice said behind me. I hadn't  heard him come in. "But that doesn't prove anything. The egg might have  carried sufficient shielding in itself. Or maybe the Commies didn't care  whether the crew was exposed or not. Or maybe there isn't any egg."    "All that's possible," I admitted. "But I want to see it, anyhow."    "Have you taken blood tests?" Joan asked Anderton.    "Yes."    "Get the reports through to me, then. I want white-cell counts,  differentials, platelet counts, hematocrit and sed rates on every man."    Anderton picked up the phone and I took a firm hold on the doorknob.    "Hey," Anderton said, putting the phone down again. "Are you going to  duck out just like that? Remember, Dr. Harris, we've got to evacuate the 
