blanked out any possible echo-pip from the egg.    "Wild goose chase?" Joan said, scanning my face.    "Not quite. I've got something, if I can just figure out what it is.  Remember One-Shot Braun?"    "Yes. What's he got to do with it?"    [Illustration]    "Nothing," I said. "But I want to bring him in. I don't think we'll lick  this project before deadline without him."    "What good is a professional gambler on a job like this? He'll just get  in the way."    I looked toward the television screen, which now showed an amorphous  black mass, jutting up from a foundation of even deeper black. "Is that  operation getting you anywhere?"    "Nothing's gotten us anywhere," Anderton interjected harshly. "We don't  even know if that's the egg--the whole area is littered with crates.  Harris, you've got to let me get that alert out!"    "Clark, how's the time going?"    Cheyney consulted the stopwatch. "Deadline in twenty-nine minutes," he  said.    "All right, let's use those minutes. I'm beginning to see this thing a  little clearer. Joan, what we've got here is a one-shot gamble; right?"    "In effect," she said cautiously.    "And it's my guess that we're never going to get the answer by diving  for it--not in time, anyhow. Remember when the Navy lost a barge-load of  shells in the harbor, back in '52? They scrabbled for them for a year  and never pulled up a one; they finally had to warn the public that if  it found anything funny-looking along the shore it shouldn't bang said  object, or shake it either. We're better equipped than the Navy was  then--but we're working against a deadline."    "If you'd admitted that earlier," Anderton said hoarsely, "we'd have  half a million people out of the city by now. Maybe even a million."    "We haven't given up yet, colonel. The point is this, Joan: what we need  is an inspired guess. Get anything from the prob series, Clark? I  thought not. On a one-shot gamble of this kind, the 'laws' of chance are  no good at all. For that matter, the so-called ESP experiments showed us 
