 Braun chuckled. "I still know a thing or two," he said. "What's the  angle?"    "That I can't tell you over the phone. But it's the biggest gamble there  ever was, and I think we need an expert. Can you come down to CIA's  central headquarters right away?"    "Yeah, if it's that big. If it ain't, I got lots of business here, Andy.  And I ain't going to be in town long. You're sure it's top stuff?"    "My word on it."    He was silent a moment. Then he said, "Andy, send me your paper."    "The paper? Sure, but--" Then I got it. I'd given him my word. "You'll  get it," I said. "Thanks, Mr. Braun."    I called headquarters and sent a messenger to my apartment to look for  one of those long-dusty blue folders with the legal-length sheets inside  them, with orders to scorch it over to Braun without stopping to breathe  more than once. Then I went back myself.    The atmosphere had changed. Anderton was sitting by the big desk,  clenching his fists and sweating; his whole posture telegraphed his  controlled helplessness. Cheyney was bent over a seismograph,  echo-sounding for the egg through the river bottom. If that even had a  prayer of working, I knew, he'd have had the trains of the Hudson &  Manhattan stopped; their rumbling course through their tubes would have  blanked out any possible echo-pip from the egg.    "Wild goose chase?" Joan said, scanning my face.    "Not quite. I've got something, if I can just figure out what it is.  Remember One-Shot Braun?"    "Yes. What's he got to do with it?"    [Illustration]    "Nothing," I said. "But I want to bring him in. I don't think we'll lick  this project before deadline without him."    "What good is a professional gambler on a job like this? He'll just get  in the way."    I looked toward the television screen, which now showed an amorphous  black mass, jutting up from a foundation of even deeper black. "Is that  operation getting you anywhere?"    "Nothing's gotten us anywhere," Anderton interjected harshly. "We don't 
