More captives were being brought in now, while the Spokesman watched  with glittering black eyes from his high perch. There was Mathild the  Forager, shivering as if with ague, the fur down her left side  glistening and spiky, as though she had inadvertently overturned a tank  plant on herself. After her was brought Alaskon the Navigator, a  middle-aged man only a few years younger than Honath himself; he was  tied up next to Honath, where he settled down at once, chewing at a  joint of cane with apparent indifference.    Thus far, the gathering had proceeded without more than a few words  being spoken, but that ended when the guards tried to bring Seth the  Needlesmith from the nets. He could be heard at once, over the entire  distance to the glade, alternately chattering and shrieking in a mixture  of tones that might mean either fear or fury. Everyone in the glade but  Alaskon turned to look, and heads emerged from purses like new  butterflies from cocoons.    A moment later, Seth's guards came over the lip of the glade in a  tangled group, now shouting themselves. Somewhere in the middle of the  knot Seth's voice became still louder; obviously he was clinging with  all five members to any vine or frond he could grasp, and was no sooner  pried loose from one than he would leap by main force, backwards if  possible, to another. Nevertheless he was being brought inexorably down  into the arena, two feet forward, one foot back, three feet forward....    Honath's guards resumed picking their pine-cones. During the  disturbance, Honath realized Charl the Reader had been brought in  quietly from the same side of the glade. He now sat opposite Alaskon,  looking apathetically down at the vine-web, his shoulders hunched  forward. He exuded despair; even to look at him made Honath feel a  renewed shudder.    From the High Seat, the Spokesman said: "Honath the Pursemaker, Alaskon  the Navigator, Charl the Reader, Seth the Needlesmith Mathild the  Forager, you are called to answer to justice."    "Justice!" Seth shouted, springing free of his captors with a tremendous  bound and bringing up with a jerk on the end of his tether. "This is no 
