circle of faces, not too close to the gap in the vine web, peering down  after them. Then the basket fell another few yards to the next turn of  the windlass and the faces vanished.    Seth was weeping in the bottom of the Elevator, curled up into a tight  ball, the end of his tail wrapped around his nose and eyes. No one else  could make a sound, least of Honath.    The gloom closed around them. It seemed extraordinarily still. The  occasional harsh screams of a lizard-bird somehow distended the silence  without breaking it. The light that filtered down into the long aisles  between the trees seemed to be absorbed in a blue-green haze through  which the lianas wove their long curved lines. The columns of  tree-trunks, the pillars of the world, stood all around them, too  distant in the dim light to allow them to gauge their speed of descent.  Only the irregular plunges of the basket proved that it was even in  motion any longer, though it swayed laterally in a complex, overlapping  series of figure-eights.    Then the basket lurched downward once more, brought up short, and tipped  sidewise, tumbling them all against the hard cane. Mathild cried out in  a thin voice, and Seth uncurled almost instantly, clawing for a  handhold. Another lurch, and the Elevator lay down on its side and was  still.    They were in Hell.    Cautiously, Honath began to climb out, picking his way over the long  thorns on the basket's rim. After a moment, Charl the Reader followed,  and then Alaskon took Mathild firmly by the hand and led her out onto  the surface. The footing was wet and spongy, yet not at all resilient,  and it felt cold; Honath's toes curled involuntarily.    "Come on, Seth," Charl said in a hushed voice. "They won't haul it back  up until we're all out. You know that."    Alaskon looked around into the chilly mists. "Yes," he said. "And we'll  need a needlesmith down here. With good tools, there's just a chance--"    Seth's eyes had been darting back and forth from one to the other. With  a sudden chattering scream, he bounded out of the bottom of the basket, 
