leaf-and-leather houses clustered thickly, bound to the vines  themselves, or hanging from an occasional branch too high or too slender  to bear the vines. Many of these purses Honath knew well, not only as  visitor but as artisan. The finest of them, the inverted flowers which  opened automatically as the morning dew bathed them, yet which could be  closed tightly and safely around their occupants at dusk by a single  draw-string, were his own design as well as his own handiwork. They had  been widely admired and imitated.    The reputation that they had given him, too, had helped to bring him to  the end of the snap-spine tether. They had given weight to his words  among others--weight enough to make him, at last, the arch-doubter, the  man who leads the young into blasphemy, the man who questions the Book  of Laws.    And they had probably helped to win him his passage on the Elevator to  Hell.    The purses were already opening as the party swung among them. Here and  there, sleepy faces blinked out from amid the exfoliating sections,  criss-crossed by relaxing lengths of dew-soaked rawhide. Some of the  awakening householders recognized Honath, of that he was sure, but none  came out to follow the party--though the villagers should be beginning  to drop from the hearts of their stitched flowers like ripe seed-pods by  this hour of any normal day.    A Judgment was at hand, and they knew it--and even those who had slept  the night in one of Honath's finest houses would not speak for him now.  Everyone knew, after all, that Honath did not believe in the Giants.    Honath could see the Judgment Seat itself now, a slung chair of woven  cane crowned along the back with a row of gigantic mottled orchids.  These had supposedly been transplanted there when the chair was made,  but no one could remember how old they were; since there were no  seasons, there was no particular reason why they should not have been  there forever. The Seat itself was at the back of the arena and high  above it, but in the gathering light Honath could make out the  white-furred face of the Tribal Spokesman, like a lone silver-and-black 
