endless, musky-perfumed orchid gardens, small dark shapes with crooked  legs, hunched shoulders, slim hairless tails carried, like his, in  concentric spirals wound clockwise. Behind them sprang Honath on the end  of a long tether, timing his leaps by theirs, since any slip would hang  him summarily.    He would of course be on his way to the surface, some 250 feet below the  orchid gardens, shortly after dawn in any event. But not even the  arch-doubter of them all wanted to begin the trip--not even at the  merciful snap-spine end of a tether--a moment before the law said, Go.    The looping, interwoven network of vines beneath them, each cable as  thick through as a man's body, bellied out and down sharply as the  leapers reached the edge of the fern-tree forest which surrounded the  copse of fan-palms. The whole party stopped before beginning the descent  and looked eastward, across the dim bowl. The stars were paling more and  more rapidly; only the bright constellation of the Parrot could still be  picked out without doubt.    "A fine day," one of the guards said, conversationally. "Better to go  below on a sunny day than in the rain, pursemaker."    Honath shuddered and said nothing. Of course it was always raining down  below in Hell, that much could be seen by a child. Even on sunny days,  the endless pinpoint rain of transpiration, from the hundred million  leaves of the eternal trees, hazed the forest air and soaked the black  bog forever.    He looked around in the brightening, misty morning. The eastern horizon  was black against the limb of the great red sun, which had already risen  about a third of its diameter; it was almost time for the small,  blue-white, furiously hot consort to follow. All the way to that brink,  as to every other horizon, the woven ocean of the treetops flowed gently  in long, unbreaking waves, featureless as some smooth oil. Only nearby  could the eye break that ocean into its details, into the world as it  was: a great, many-tiered network, thickly overgrown with small ferns,  with air-drinking orchids, with a thousand varieties of fungi sprouting  wherever vine crossed vine and collected a little humus for them, with 
