long-jawed hunger stalking anything that flew--as they sometimes stalked  the birds of the attic world, and the flying fish along the breast of  the distant sea.    The party halted in an especially thick clump of sedges. Though the rain  continued to fall, harder than ever, they were all desperately thirsty.  They had yet to find a single bromelaid: evidently the tank-plants did  not grow in Hell. Cupping their hands to the weeping sky accumulated  surprisingly little water; and no puddles large enough to drink from  accumulated on the sand. But at least, here under the open sky, there  was too much fierce struggle in the air to allow the lizard-birds to  congregate and squall about their hiding place.    The white sun had already set and the red sun's vast arc still bulged  above the horizon. In the lurid glow the rain looked like blood, and the  seamed faces of the pink cliffs had all but vanished. Honath peered  dubiously out from under the sedges at the still distant escarpments.    "I don't see how we can hope to climb those," he said, in a low voice.  "That kind of limestone crumbles as soon as you touch it, otherwise we'd  have had better luck with our war against the cliff tribe."    "We could go around the cliffs," Charl said. "The foothills of the Great  Range aren't very steep. If we could last until we get to them, we could  go on up into the Range itself."    "To the volcanoes!" Mathild protested. "But nothing can live up there,  nothing but the white fire-things. And there are the lava-flows, too,  and the choking smoke--"    "Well, we can't climb these cliffs. Honath's quite right," Alaskon said.  "And we can't climb the Basalt Steppes, either--there's nothing to eat  along them, let alone any water or cover. I don't see what else we can  do but try to get up into the foothills."    "Can't we stay here?" Mathild said plaintively.    "No," Honath said, even more gently than he had intended. Mathild's four  words were, he knew, the most dangerous words in Hell--he knew it quite  surely, because of the imprisoned creature inside him that cried out to 
