This, then, was the end of the battle to do what was right, whatever the  odds. All the show of courage against superstition, all the black  battles against Hell itself, came down to this: _The Giants were real!_    They were unarguably real. Though they were twice as tall as men, stood  straighter, had broader shoulders, were heavier across the seat and had  no visible tails, their fellowship with men was clear. Even their  voices, as they shouted to each other around their towering metal  minnow, were the voices of men made into gods, voices as remote from  those of men as the voices of men were remote from those of monkeys, yet  just as clearly of the same family.    These were the Giants of the Book of Laws. They were not only real, but  they had come back to Tellura as they had promised to do.    And they would know what to do with unbelievers, and with fugitives from  Hell. It had all been for nothing--not only the physical struggle, but  the fight to be allowed to think for oneself as well. The gods existed,  literally, actually. This belief was the real hell from which Honath had  been trying to fight free all his life--but now it was no longer just a  belief. It was a fact, a fact that he was seeing with his own eyes.    The Giants had returned to judge their handiwork. And the first of the  people they would meet would be three outcasts, three condemned and  degraded criminals, three jail-breakers--the worst possible detritus of  the attic world.    All this went searing through Honath's mind in less than a second, but  nevertheless Alaskon's mind evidently had worked still faster. Always  the most outspoken unbeliever of the entire little group of rebels, the  one among them whose whole world was founded upon the existence of  rational explanations for everything, his was the point of view most  completely challenged by the sight before them now. With a deep, sharply  indrawn breath, he turned abruptly and walked away from them.    Mathild uttered a cry of protest, which she choked off in the middle;  but it was already too late. A round eye on the great silver minnow came 
