Alaskon chuckled. "Hell's not so bad, is it?" he said. Then he sighed,  and rushes creaked under him.    "Mathild! What's the matter? Is he--did he die?"    "No ... no. He's breathing. He's still sicker than he realizes, that's  all.... Honath--if they'd known, up above, how much courage you have--"    "I was scared white," Honath said grimly. "I'm still scared."    But her hand touched his again in the solid blackness, and after he had  taken it, he felt irrationally cheerful. With Alaskon breathing so  raggedly behind them, there was little chance that either of them would  be able to sleep that night; but they sat silently together on the hard  stone in a kind of temporary peace. When the mouth of the cave began to  outline itself with the first glow of the red sun, they looked at each  other in a conspiracy of light all their own.    _Let us unlearn everything we knew only by rote, go back to the  beginning, learn all over again, and continue to learn...._    With the first light of the white sun, a half-grown megatherium cub rose  slowly from its crouch at the mouth of the cave and stretched  luxuriously, showing a full set of saber-like teeth. It looked at them  steadily for a moment, its ears alert, then turned and loped away down  the slope.    How long it had been crouched there listening to them, it was impossible  to know. They had been lucky that they had stumbled into the lair of a  youngster. A full-grown animal would have killed them all, within a few  seconds after its cat's-eyes had collected enough dawn to identify them  positively. The cub, since it had no family of its own, evidently had  only been puzzled to find its den occupied and didn't want to quarrel  about it.    The departure of the big cat left Honath frozen, not so much frightened  as simply stunned by so unexpected an end to the vigil. At the first  moan from Alaskon, however, Mathild was up and walking softly to the  navigator, speaking in a low voice, sentences which made no particular  sense and perhaps were not intended to. Honath stirred and followed her. 
