one's neighbors. But Honath had spoken up, and so had the rest of them,  in their fashions.    It was the ancient internal battle between what Honath wanted to do, and  what he knew he ought to do. He had never heard of Kant and the  Categorical Imperative, but he knew well enough which side of his nature  would win in the long run. But it had been a cruel joke of heredity  which had fastened a sense of duty onto a lazy nature. It made even  small decisions egregiously painful.    But for the moment at least, the decision was out of his hands. Alaskon  was too sick to be moved. In addition, the strong beams of sunlight  which had been glaring in across the floor of the cave were dimming by  the instant, and there was a distant, premonitory growl of thunder.    "Then we'll stay here," he said. "It's going to rain again, and hard  this time. Once it's falling in earnest, I can go out and pick us some  fruit--it'll screen me even if anything is prowling around in it. And I  won't have to go as far as the stream for water, as long as the rain  keeps up."    The rain, as it turned out, kept up all day, in a growing downpour which  completely curtained the mouth of the cave by early afternoon. The  chattering of the nearby stream grew quickly to a roar.    By evening, Alaskon's fever seemed to have dropped almost to normal, and  his strength nearly returned as well. The wound, thanks more to the  encrusted matte of mold than to any complications within the flesh  itself, was still ugly-looking, but it was now painful only when the  navigator moved carelessly, and Mathild was convinced that it was  mending. Alaskon himself, having been deprived of activity all day, was  unusually talkative.    "Has it occurred to either of you," he said in the gathering gloom,  "that since that stream is water, it can't possibly be coming from the  Great Range? All the peaks over there are just cones of ashes and lava.  We've seen young volcanoes in the process of building themselves, so 
