  "I can find my way. I'll follow the sound of the stream of blue lava or  whatever it is. You pull some fresh leaves for Alaskon and try to make  him comfortable. Better loosen those vines around the dressing a little.  I'll be back."    He touched her hand and pried it loose gently. Then, without stopping to  think about it any further, he slipped off the ledge and edged toward  the sound of the stream, travelling crabwise on all fours.    But he was swiftly lost. The night was thick and completely  impenetrable, and he found that the noise of the stream seemed to come  from all sides, providing him no guide at all. Furthermore, his memory  of the ridge which led up to the cave appeared to be faulty, for he  could feel it turning sharply to the right beneath him, though he  remembered distinctly that it had been straight past the first  side-branch, and then had gone to the left. Or had he passed the first  side-branch in the dark without seeing it? He probed the darkness  cautiously with one hand.    At the same instant, a brisk, staccato gust of wind came whirling up out  of the night across the ridge. Instinctively, Honath shifted his weight  to take up the flexing of the ground beneath him.    He realized his error instantly and tried to arrest the complex set of  motions, but a habit-pattern so deeply ingrained could not be frustrated  completely. Overwhelmed with vertigo, Honath grappled at the empty air  with hands, feet and tail and went toppling.    An instant later, with a familiar noise and an equally familiar cold  shock that seemed to reach throughout his body, he was sitting in the  midst of--    Water. Icy water. Water that rushed by him improbably with a menacing,  monkeylike chattering, but water all the same.    It was all he could do to repress a hoot of hysteria. He hunkered down  into the stream and soaked himself. Things nibbled delicately at his  calves as he bathed, but he had no reason to fear fish, small species of  which often showed up in the tanks of the bromelaids. After lowering his 
