between the basalt pillars in a smooth, almost solid-looking tube,  arching at least six feet before beginning to break into the fan of  spray and rainbows which poured down into the gorge. Once the chimney  had been climbed, it should be possible to climb out from under the  falls without passing through the water again.    And after that--?    Abruptly, Honath grinned. He felt weak all through with reaction, and  the face of the demon would probably be grinning in his dreams for a  long time to come. But at the same time he could not repress a surge of  irrational confidence. He gestured upward jauntily, shook himself, and  loped forward into the throat of the chimney.    Hardly more than an hour later they were all standing on a ledge  overlooking the gorge, with the waterfall creaming over the brink next  to them, only a few yards away. From here, it was evident that the gorge  itself was only the bottom of a far greater cleft, a split in the  pink-and-grey cliffs as sharp as though it had been riven in the rock by  a bolt of sheet lightning. Beyond the basalt pillars from which the fall  issued, however, the stream foamed over a long ladder of rock shelves  which seemed to lead straight up into the sky.    "That way?" Mathild said.    "Yes, and as fast as possible," Alaskon said, shading his eyes. "It must  be late. I don't think the light will last much longer."    "We'll have to go single file," Honath added. "And we'd better keep hold  of each other's hands. One slip on those wet steps and--it's a long way  down again."    Mathild shuddered and took Honath's hand convulsively. To his  astonishment, the next instant she was tugging him toward the basalt  pillars.    The irregular patch of deepening violet sky grew slowly as they climbed.  They paused often, clinging to the jagged escarpments until their breath  came back, and snatching icy water in cupped palms from the stream that  fell down the ladder beside them. There was no way to tell how far up  into the dusk the way had taken them, but Honath suspected that they 
