Then it turned again, at right angles, and the three found themselves at  the exit of a dark gorge, little more than thirty feet high, but both  narrow and long. Here the stream was almost perfectly smooth, and the  thin strip of land on each side of it was covered with low shrubs. They  paused and looked dubiously into the canyon. It was singularly gloomy.    "There's plenty of cover, at least," Honath said in a low voice. "But  almost anything could live in a place like that."    "Nothing very big could hide in it," Alaskon pointed out. "It should be  safe. Anyhow it's the only way to go."    "All right. Let's go ahead, then. But keep your head down, and be ready  to jump!"    Honath lost the other two by sight as soon as they crept into the dark  shrubbery, but he could hear their cautious movements nearby. Nothing  else in the gorge seemed to move at all, not even the water, which  flowed without a ripple over an invisible bed. There was not even any  wind, for which Honath was grateful, although he had begun to develop an  immunity to the motionless ground beneath them.    After a few moments, Honath heard a low whistle. Creeping sidewise  toward the source of the sound, he nearly bumped into Alaskon, who was  crouched beneath a thickly-spreading magnolia. An instant later,  Mathilda's face peered out of the dim greenery.    "Look," Alaskon whispered. "What do you make of this?"    'This' was a hollow in the sandy soil, about four feet across and rimmed  with a low parapet of earth--evidently the same earth that had been  scooped out of its center. Occupying most of it were three grey,  ellipsoidal objects, smooth and featureless.    "Eggs," Mathild said wonderingly.    "Obviously. But look at the size of them! Whatever laid them must be  gigantic. I think we're trespassing in something's private valley."    Mathild drew in her breath. Honath thought fast, as much to prevent  panic in himself as in the girl. A sharp-edged stone lying nearby  provided the answer. He seized it and struck.    
