Giant said. "Don't you still live in the vine-webs above the jungles?"    "Lord--"    "My name is Jarl Eleven. This man is Gerhardt Adler."    This seemed to stop Mathild completely. Honath could understand why. The  very notion of addressing Giants by name was nearly paralyzing. But  since they were already as good as cast down into Hell again, nothing  could be lost by it.    "Jarl Eleven," he said, "the people still live among the vines. The  floor of the jungle is forbidden. Only criminals are sent there. We are  criminals."    "Oh?" Jarl Eleven said. "And you've come all the way from the surface to  this mesa? Gerhardt, this is prodigious. You have no idea what the  surface of this planet is like--it's a place where evolution has never  managed to leave the tooth-and-nail stage. Dinosaurs from every period  of the Mesozoic, primitive mammals all the way up the scale to the  ancient cats the works. That's why the original seeding team put these  people in the treetops instead."    "Honath, what was your crime?" Gerhardt Adler said.    Honath was almost relieved to have the questioning come so quickly to  this point. Jarl Eleven's aside, with its many terms he could not  understand, had been frightening in its very meaninglessness.    "There were five of us," Honath said in a low voice. "We said we--that  we did not believe in the Giants."    There was a brief silence. Then, shockingly, both Jarl Eleven and  Gerhardt Adler burst into enormous laughter.    Mathild cowered, her hands over her ears. Even Honath flinched and took  a step backward. Instantly, the laughter stopped, and the Giant called  Jarl Eleven stepped into the oval of light and sat down beside them. In  the light, it could be seen that his face and hands were hairless,  although there was hair on his crown; the rest of his body was covered  by a kind of cloth. Seated, he was no taller than Honath, and did not  seem quite so fearsome.    "I beg your pardon," he said. "It was unkind of us to laugh, but what  you said was highly unexpected. Gerhardt, come over here and squat down, 
