  "To make men? But only gods--"    "No, no. Be patient and listen," said Jarl Eleven. "We don't make men.  We make them suitable. There's a great deal of difference between the  two. We take the living germ plasm, the sperm and the egg, and we modify  it. When the modified man emerges, we help him to settle down in his new  world. That's what we did on Tellura--it happened long ago, before  Gerhardt and I were even born. Now we've come back to see how you people  are getting along, and to lend a hand if necessary."    He looked from Honath to Mathild, and back again. "Do you understand?"  he said.    "I'm trying." Honath said. "But you should go down to the jungle-top,  then. We're not like the others; they are the people you want to see."    "We shall, in the morning. We just landed here. But, just because you're  not like the others, we're more interested in you now. Tell me, has any  condemned man ever escaped from the jungle floor before you people?"    "No, never. That's not surprising. There are monsters down there."    Jarl Eleven looked sidewise at the other Giant. He seemed to be smiling.  "When you see the films," he remarked, "you'll call that the  understatement of the century. Honath, how did you three manage to  escape, then?"    Haltingly at first, and then with more confidence as the memories came  crowding vividly back, Honath told him. When he mentioned the feast at  the demon's nest, Jarl Eleven again looked significantly at Adler, but  he did not interrupt.    "And finally we got to the top of the chimney and came out on this flat  space," Honath said. "Alaskon was still with us then, but when he saw  you and the metal thing he threw himself back down the cleft. He was a  criminal like us, but he should not have died. He was a brave man, and a  wise one."    "Not wise enough to wait until all the evidence was in," Adler said  enigmatically. "All in all, Jarl, I'd say 'prodigious' is the word for  it. This is easily the most successful seeding job any team has ever 
