case was ideological. That was the crucial turn in the criminal policy  of these people. A spirit of revolt is not quite enough, but couple it  with brains and--_ecce homo_!"    Honath's head was swimming. "But what does all this mean?" he said. "Are  we--not condemned to Hell any more?"    "No, you're still condemned, if you still want to call it that," Jarl  Eleven said soberly. "You've learned how to live down there, and you've  found out something even more valuable: how to stay alive while cutting  down your enemies. Do you know that you killed three demons with your  bare hands, you and Mathild and Alaskon?"    "Killed--"    "Certainly," Jarl Eleven said. "You ate three eggs. That is the  classical way, and indeed the only way, to wipe out monsters like the  dinosaurs. You can't kill the adults with anything short of an anti-tank  gun, but they're helpless in embryo--and the adults haven't the sense to  guard their nests."    Honath heard, but only distantly. Even his awareness of Mathild's warmth  next to him did not seem to help much.    "Then we have to go back down there," he said dully. "And this time  forever."    "Yes," Jarl Eleven said, his voice gentle. "But you wont be alone,  Honath. Beginning tomorrow, you'll have all your people with you."    "_All_ our people? But you're going to drive them out?"    "All of them. Oh, we won't prohibit the use of the vine-webs too, but  from now on your race will have to fight it out on the surface as well.  You and Mathild have proven that it can be done. It's high time the rest  of you learned, too."    "Jarl, you think too little of these young people themselves," Adler  said. "Tell them what is in store for them. They are frightened."    "Of course, of course. It's obvious. Honath, you and Mathild are the  only living individuals of your race who know how to survive down there  on the surface. And we're not going to tell your people how to do that.  We aren't even going to drop them so much as a hint. That part of it is 
