 Old-fashioned theologians, Harry remembered, used to argue whether  there really was a Hell, and if so, had it been created by God or the  Devil? Too bad they weren't around today to get an answer to their  questions. There _was_ a Hell, and it had been created by General  Motors.    Harry's temples began to throb. Through blurred eyes, he saw the  attendant beckoning him down the line to a platform marked _Check-Out  #3_. He stood there with a cluster of others, waiting.    What was the matter with him today, anyway? First the headache, and  now his feet were hurting. Standing around waiting, that's what did  it. This eternal waiting. When he was a kid, the grownups were always  complaining about the long seven-hour work days and how they cut into  their leisure time. Well, maybe they had reason to gripe, but at least  there _was_ some leisure before work began or after it was through.  Now that extra time was consumed in waiting. Standing in line,  standing in crowds, wearing yourself out doing nothing.    Still, this time it wasn't really so bad. Within ten minutes the light  blue Pax rolled up before him. Harry climbed in as the attendant slid  out from behind the wheel and prepared to leave.    Then a fat man appeared, running along the ramp. He gestured wildly  with a plump thumb. Harry nodded briefly, and the fat man hurled  himself into the seat beside him and slammed the door.    They were off. Harry read the signals impatiently, waiting for the  green _Go_. The moment he saw it he gunned his motor and got the car  up to twenty-two and zipped away.    That's what he liked, that's what he always waited for. Of course it  was dangerous, here in the tunnel system under the garage, but Harry  always got a thrill out of speed. The Pax could do thirty-five or even  forty, probably, on a theoretical open road. Still, twenty-two was  enough to satisfy Harry.    He whizzed up the ramp, turned, headed for the street-level, then  braked and waited for the signal to emerge.    Harsh sunlight pierced the smog and he felt his eyes watering. Now the 
