 believed him, because you wanted to believe him. You wanted the  reassurance he could offer you--the feeling of being unique and  important. So you didn't ask him any questions, you didn't ask any  questions of yourself. Such as why anybody would consider an  insignificant little agency man, without friends, family or  connections, worth the trouble of rehabilitating at all, let alone  amidst such elaborate and expensive surroundings. Why, men like you  are a dime a dozen these days--Vocational Apt can push a few buttons  and come up with half a million replacements to take over your job.  You aren't important to society, Collins. You aren't important to  anyone at all, besides yourself. And yet you got the red-carpet  treatment. It's about time somebody yanked that carpet out from under  you. What's it all about?"    Harry blinked. "Look here, I don't see why this is any of your  business. Besides, to tell the truth, I'm expecting--"    "I know who you're expecting, but I've already told you she won't be  here. Because she's expecting."    "What--?"    "It's high time you learned the facts of life, Collins. Yes, the  well-known facts of life--the ones about the birds and the bees, and  barefoot boys and blondes, too. Your little friend Sue is going to  have a souvenir."    "I don't believe it! I'm going to ask Dr. Manschoff."    "Sure you are. You'll ask Manschoff and he'll deny it. And so you'll  tell him about me. You'll say you met somebody in the woods  today--either a lunatic or a Naturalist spy who infiltrated here under  false pretenses. And Manschoff will reassure you. He'll reassure you  just long enough to get his hands on me. Then he'll take care of both  of us."    "Are you insinuating--"    "Hell, no! I'm _telling_ you!" Ritchie put his hand down suddenly, and  his voice calmed. "Ever wonder about those other two big buildings on  the premises here, Collins? Well, I can tell you about one of them,  because that's where I work. You might call it an experimental  laboratory if you like. Sometime later on I'll describe it to you. But 
