 'real treatment' begins."    "I guess I've already had the real treatment then, haven't I?"    "That is correct. Prolonged analysis or drastic therapy is  unnecessary. We've merely given you what you seemed to need."    "I'm very grateful," Harry said. "But how can you afford to do it?"    Dr. Manschoff built another temple to an unknown god. He inspected the  architecture critically now as he spoke. "Because your problem is a  rarity," he said.    "Rarity? I'd have thought millions of people would be breaking down  every month. The Naturalists say--"    The doctor nodded wearily. "I know what they say. But let's dismiss  rumors and consider facts. Have you ever read any _official_ report  stating that the number of cases of mental illness ran into the  millions?"    "No, I haven't."    "For that matter, do you happen to know of _anyone_ who was ever sent  to a treatment center such as this?"    "Well, of course, everybody goes in to see the medics for regular  check-ups and this includes an interview with a psych. But if they're  in bad shape he just puts them on extra tranquilizers. I guess  sometimes he reviews their Vocational Apt tests and shifts them over  into different jobs in other areas."    Dr. Manschoff bowed his head in reverence above the steeple, as if  satisfied with the labors he had wrought. "That is roughly correct.  And I believe, if you search your memory, you won't recall even a  mention of a treatment center. This sort of place is virtually  extinct, nowadays. There are still some institutions for those  suffering from functional mental disorders--paresis, senile dementia,  congenital abnormalities. But regular check-ups and preventative  therapy take care of the great majority. We've ceased concentrating on  the result of mental illnesses and learned to attack the causes.    "It's the old yellow fever problem all over again, you see. Once upon  a time, physicians dealt exclusively with treatment of yellow fever  patients. Then they shifted their attention to the _source_ of the  disease. They went after the mosquitoes, drained the swamps, and the  yellow fever problem vanished. 
