"Well, they can't stand the pressures of daily living, or the  prospects of a future when we'll be still more hemmed in."    Ritchie nodded. "Any more than you could, a few months ago, when you  tried to commit suicide. Wouldn't you say that _you_ were thinking  like a Naturalist then?"    Harry grimaced. "I suppose so."    "Don't feel ashamed. You saw the situation clearly, just as the  so-called Naturalists do. And just as the government does. Only the  government can't dare admit it--hence the secrecy behind this  project."    "A hush-hush government plan to stimulate further breeding? I still  don't see--"    "Look at the world," Ritchie repeated. "Look at it realistically.  What's the situation at present? Population close to six billion, and  rising fast. There was a leveling-off period in the Sixties, and then  it started to climb again. No wars, no disease to cut it down. The  development of synthetic foods, the use of algae and fungi, rules out  famine as a limiting factor. Increased harnessing of atomic power has  done away with widespread poverty, so there's no economic deterrent to  propagation. Neither church nor state dares set up a legal  prohibition. So here we are, at the millennium. In place of  international tension we've substituted internal tension. In place of  thermonuclear explosion, we have a population explosion."    "You make it look pretty grim."    "I'm just talking about today. What happens ten years from now, when  we hit a population-level of ten billion? What happens when we reach  twenty billion, fifty billion, a hundred? Don't talk to me about more  substitutes, more synthetics, new ways of conserving top-soil. There  just isn't going to be _room_ for everyone!"    "Then what's the answer?"    "That's what the government wants to know. Believe me, they've done a  lot of searching; most of it _sub rosa_. And then along came this man  Leffingwell, with _his_ solution. That's just what it is, of  course--an endocrinological solution, for direct injection."    "Leffingwell? The Dr. Leffingwell whose name was on that photostat?  What's he got to do with all this?"    "He's boss of this project," Ritchie said. "He's the one who persuaded 
