the country, without a permit, mind you; just to drive wherever I  like. I want to see cows and chickens and trees and lakes and sky."    "You sound like a Naturalist."    "Don't sneer. Maybe the Naturalists are right. Maybe we ought to cut  out all this phoney progress and phoney peace that passeth all  understanding. I'm no liberal, don't get me wrong, but sometimes I  think the Naturalists have the only answer."    "But what can you do about it?" Frazer murmured. "Suppose for the  sake of argument that they _are_ right. How can you change things? We  can't just _will_ ourselves to stop growing, and we can't legislate  against biology. More people, in better health, with more free time,  are just bound to have more offspring. It's inevitable, under the  circumstances. And neither you nor I nor anyone has the right to  condemn millions upon millions of others to death through war or  disease."    "I know," Harry said. "It's hopeless, I guess. All the same, I want  out." He wet his lips. "Frazer, you're on the Board here. You've got  connections higher up. If I could only get a chance to transfer to Ag  Culture, go on one of those farms as a worker--"    Frazer shook his head. "Sorry, Harry. You know the situation there,  I'm sure. Right now there's roughly ninety million approved  applications on file. Everybody wants to get into Ag Culture."    "But couldn't I just buy some land, get a government contract for  foodstuffs?"    "Have you got the bucks? A minimum forty acres leased from one of the  farm corporations will cost you two hundred thousand at the very  least, not counting equipment." He paused. "Besides, there's  Vocational Apt. What did your tests show?"    "You're right," Harry said. "I'm supposed to be an agency man. An  agency man until I die. Or retire on my pension, at fifty, and sit in  my little room for the next fifty years, turning on the telescreen  every morning to hear some loudmouthed liar tell me it's a beautiful  day in Chicagee. Who knows, maybe by that time we'll have a hundred  
