   "I am. I could sleep for a week. That is, I _wish_ I could."    "Any luck?"    The President pushed the papers aside and drummed the desk for a  moment. Then he offered the Secretary a gray ghost of a smile.    "The answer's still the same."    "But this was our last chance--"    "I know." The President leaned back. "When I think of the time and  effort, the money that's been poured into these projects! To say  nothing of the hopes we had. And now, it's all for nothing."    "You can't say that," the Secretary answered. "After all, we did reach  the moon. We got to Mars." He paused. "No one can take that away from  you. You sponsored the Martian flights. You fought for the  appropriations, pushed the project, carried it through. You helped  mankind realize its greatest dream--"    "Save that for the newscasts," the President said. "The fact remains,  we've succeeded. And our success was a failure. Mankind's greatest  dream, eh? Read these reports and you'll find out this is mankind's  greatest nightmare."    "Is it that bad?"    "Yes." The President slumped in his chair. "It's that bad. We can  reach the moon at will. Now we can send a manned flight to Mars. But  it means nothing. We can't support life in either place. There's  absolutely no possibility of establishing or maintaining an outpost,  let alone a large colony or a permanent human residence. That's what  all the reports conclusively demonstrate.    "Every bit of oxygen, every bit of food and clothing and material,  would have to be supplied. And investigations prove there's no chance  of ever realizing any return. The cost of such an operation is  staggeringly prohibitive. Even if there was evidence to show it might  be possible to undertake some mining projects, it wouldn't begin to  defray expenses, once you consider the transportation factor."    "But if they improve the rockets, manage to make room for a bigger  payload, wouldn't it be cheaper?"    "It would still cost roughly a billion dollars to equip a flight and  maintain a personnel of twenty men for a year," the President told 
