outcome or issue of the experiments (_outcome? Issue? These horrors?_)  and that was why Manschoff must have chosen to take the risk of  keeping him alive. Because he was one of the _good_ guinea pigs, and  he had spawned, spawned living, mewing abominations.    He had dreamed of these things, and now he saw that they were real, so  that nightmare merged with _now_, and he could gaze down at it with  open eyes and scream at last with open mouth.    Then, of course, an attendant came running (_although he seemed to be  moving ever so slowly, because everything moves so slowly in a dream_)  and Harry saw him coming and lifted a bell-glass and smashed it down  over the man's head (_slowly, ever so slowly_) and then he heard the  others coming and he climbed out of the window and ran.    The searchlights winked across the courtyards and the sirens vomited  hysteria from metallic throats and the night was filled with shadows  that pursued.    But Harry knew where to run. He ran straight through the nightmare,  through all the fantastic but familiar convolutions of sight and  sound, and then he came to the river and plunged in.    Now the nightmare was not sight or sound, but merely sensation. Icy  cold and distilled darkness; ripples that ran, then raced and roiled  and roared. But there had to be a way out of the nightmare and there  had to be a way out of the canyon, and that way was the river.    Apparently no one else had thought of the river; perhaps they had  considered it as a possible avenue of escape and then discarded the  notion when they realized how it ripped and raged among the rocks as  it finally plunged from the canyon's mouth. Obviously, no one could  hope to combat that current and survive.    But strange things happen in nightmares. And you fight the numbness  and the blackness and you claw and convulse and you twist and turn and  toss and then you ride the crests of frenzy and plunge into the  troughs of panic and despair and you sweep round and round and sink 
