 knocked out the chances of future war, but it also knocked out the  interest in speculation or escape-fiction. So I moved over into  television for a while, and stayed with it. But the old science  fiction was fun while it lasted. Ever read any of it?"    "No," Harry admitted. "That was all before my time. Tell me,  though--did any of it make sense? I mean, did some of those writers  foresee what was really going to happen?"    "There were plenty of penny prophets and nickel Nostradamuses," Wade  told him. "But as I said, most of them were assuming war with the  Communists or a new era of space travel. Since Communism collapsed and  space flight was just an expensive journey to a dead end and dead  worlds, it follows that the majority of fictional futures were founded  on fallacies. And all the rest of the extrapolations dealt with  superficial social manifestations.    "For example, they wrote about civilizations dominated by advertising  and mass-motivation techniques. It's true that during my childhood  this seemed to be a logical trend--but once demand exceeded supply,  the whole mechanism of _stimulating_ demand, which was advertising's  chief function, bogged down. And mass-motivation techniques, today,  are dedicated almost entirely to maintaining minimum resistance to a  system insuring our survival.    "Another popular idea was based on the notion of an expanding  matriarchy--a gerontomatriarchy, rather, in which older women would  take control. In an age when women outlived men by a number of years,  this seemed possible. Now, of course, shortened working hours and  medical advances have equalized the life-span. And since private  property has become less and less of a factor in dominating our  collective destinies, it hardly matters whether the male or the female  has the upper hand.    "Then there was the common theory that technological advances would  result in a push-button society, where automatons would do all the  work. And so they might--if we had an unlimited supply of raw  materials to produce robots, and unlimited power-sources to activate  them. As we now realize, atomic power cannot be utilized on a minute  scale.    "Last, but not least, there was the concept of a medically-orientated 
