spare you out of sentimentality. He had a purpose."    "A purpose in sending me to prison, letting me rot all these years  while--"    "While I grew up. I and the others like myself. And while the world  outside changed." Harry's son smiled. "Your friend Richard Wade was  right, you know. He guessed a great deal of the truth. Leffingwell and  Manschoff and the rest of their associates deliberately set out to  assemble a select group of nonconformists--men of specialized talents  and outlooks. There were over three hundred of you at Stark Falls.  Richard Wade knew why."    "And so he was dragged off and murdered."    "Murdered? No, Father, he's very much alive, I assure you. In fact,  he'll be here tonight."    "But why was he taken away so abruptly, without any warning?"    "He was needed. There was a crisis, when Dr. Leffingwell died."  Harry's son sighed. "You didn't know about that, did you? There's so  much for you to learn. But I'll let him tell you himself, when you see  him this evening."    Richard Wade told him. And so did William Chang and Lars Neilstrom and  all the others. During the ensuing weeks, Harry saw each of them  again. But Wade's explanation was sufficient.    "I was right," he said. "There was no Underground when we were at  Stark Falls. What I didn't realize, though, was that there was an  Overground."    "Overground?"    "You might call it that. Leffingwell and his staff formed the nucleus.  They foresaw the social crisis which lay ahead, when the world became  physically divided into the tall and the short, the young and the old.  They knew there'd be a need of individuality then--and they _did_  create a stockpile. A stockpile of the younger generation, specially  educated; a stockpile of the older generation, carefully selected. We  conspicuous rebels were incarcerated and given an opportunity to think  the problem through, with limited contact with one another's  viewpoints."    "But why weren't we told the truth at the beginning, allowed to meet  face-to-face and make some sensible plans for the future?"    
