before--perhaps long before Mike was born. They understood everything;  the gun and the presence and the purpose.    "Shoot!" the boy cried, not bothering to hold his voice down any  longer. For the elephant was moving slowly towards the side of the  wallow, moving deliberately to firmer footing, and the boy was afraid.  Mike was afraid, too, but he couldn't shoot.    "No," he murmured. "Let him go. I can't kill him."    "You must," the boy said. "You promise. Look--all the meat. Meat for  two, three villages."    Mike shook his head. "I can't do it," he said. "That isn't meat.  That's life. Bigger life than we are. Don't you understand? Oh, the  bloody hell with it! Come on."    The boy wasn't listening to him. He was watching the elephant. And now  he started to tremble.    For the elephant was moving up onto solid ground. It moved slowly,  daintily, almost mincing as its legs sampled the surface of the shore.  Then it looked up and this time there was no doubt as to the direction  of its gaze--it stared intently at Mike and the boy on the bank. Its  ears fanned, then flared. Suddenly the elephant raised its trunk and  trumpeted fiercely.    And then, lowering the black battering-ram of its head, the beast came  forward. A deceptively slow lope, a scarcely accelerated trot, and  then all at once it was moving swiftly, swiftly and surely and  inexorably towards them. The angle of the bank was not steep and the  elephant's speed never slackened on the slope. Its right shoulder  struck a sapling and the sapling splintered. It was crashing forward  in full charge. Again it trumpeted, trunk extended like a flail of  doom.    "Shoot!" screamed the boy.    Mike didn't want to shoot. He wanted to run. He wanted to flee the  mountain, flee the incredible breathing bulk of this grotesque giant.  But he was a white hunter, he was a man, and a man is not a beast; a  man does not run away from life in any shape or size.    The trunk came up. Mike raised the gun. He heard the monster roar, far 
