   "Impossible?" Wolzek's voice was a mocking echo. "You sit here in this  tomb and when somebody tells you that the world you know has died, you  refuse to believe it. Even though every night, after you sneak home  and huddle up inside your room trying not to be noticed, ten guards  patrol this place with subatomics, so the Yardstick gangs won't break  in and take over. So they won't do what they did down south--overrun  the office buildings and the factories and break them up, cut them  down to size for living quarters."    "But they were stopped," Eric objected. "I saw it on the telescreen,  the security forces stopped them--"    "Crapola!" Wolzek pronounced the archaicism with studied care. "You  saw films. Faked films. Have you ever traveled, Eric? Ever been down  south and seen conditions there?"    "Nobody travels nowadays. You know that. Priorities."    "I travel, Eric. And I know. Security forces don't suppress anything  in the south these days. Because they're made up of Yardsticks now;  that's right, Yardsticks exclusively. And in a few years that's the  way it will be up here. Did you ever hear about the Chicagee riots?"    "You mean last year, when the Yardsticks tried to take over the  synthetic plants at the Stockyards?"    "Tried? They _succeeded_. The workers ousted management. Over fifty  thousand were killed in the revolution--oh, don't look so shocked,  that's the right word for it!--but the Yardsticks won out in the end."    "But the telescreen showed--"    "Damn the telescreen! I know because I happened to be there when it  happened. And if _you_ had been there, you and a few million other  ostriches who sit with your heads buried in telescreens, maybe we  could have stopped them."    "I don't believe it. I can't!"    "All right. Think back. That was last year. And since the first of  this year, what's happened to the standard size meat-ration?"    "They cut it in half," Eric admitted. "But that's because of Ag  shortages, according to the telescreen reports--" He stood up,  gulping. "Look here, I'm not going to listen to any more of this kind 
