Civilization has been restored, snatched from the very brink of a  barbarism that threatened to engulf us."    "Nonsense," Thurmon murmured.    "What?"    "Sheer nonsense, Littlejohn. You're talking like a pedant."    "But I _am_ a pedant." Littlejohn nodded. "And it's true. When the  Naturalists were exterminated, this nation and other nations were  literally destroyed. Worse than physical destruction was the threat of  mental and moral collapse. But the Yardstick councils arose to take  over. The concept of small government came into being and saved us. We  began to rebuild on a sensible scale, with local, limited control. The  little community arose--"    "Spare me the history lesson," said Thurmon, dryly. "We rebuilt, yes.  We survived. In a sense, perhaps, we even made certain advances. There  is no longer any economic rivalry, no social distinctions, no external  pressure. I think I can safely assume that the danger of future  warfare is forever banished. The balance of power is no longer a  factor. The balance of Nature has been partially restored. And only  one problem remains to plague mankind."    "What is that?"    "We face extinction," Thurmon said.    "But that's not true," Littlejohn interrupted. "Look at history and--"    "Look at us." Thurmon sighed. "You needn't bother with history. The  answer is written in our faces, in our own bodies. I've searched the  past very little, compared to your scholarship, but enough to know  that things were different in the old days. The Naturalists, whatever  else they might have been, were strong men. They walked freely in the  land, they lived lustily and long.    "Do you know what our average life-expectancy is today, Littlejohn? A  shade under forty years. And that only if one is fortunate enough to  lead a sheltered existence, as we do. In the mines, in the fields, in  the radioactive areas, they die before the age of thirty."    Littlejohn leaned forward. "Schuyler touches on just that point in his  _Psychology of Time_," he said, eagerly. "He posits the relationship  between size and duration. Time is relative, you know. Our lives,  short as they may be in terms of comparative chronology, nevertheless 
