         6. Harry Collins--2012      Harry crouched behind the boulders, propping the rifle up between the  rocks, and adjusted the telescopic sights. The distant doorway sprang  into sharp focus. Grunting with satisfaction, he settled down to his  vigil. The rifle-barrel had been dulled down against detection by  reflection, and Harry's dark glasses protected him against the glare  of the morning sun. He might have to wait several hours now, but he  didn't care. It had taken him twelve years to come this far, and he  was willing to wait a little while longer.    _Twelve years._ Was it really that long?    A mirror might have answered him; a mirror might have shown him the  harsh features of a man of forty-two. But Harry needed no mirror. He  could remember the past dozen years only too easily--though they had  not been easy years.    Surviving the river was only the beginning. Animal strength carried  him through that ordeal. But he emerged from the river as an animal; a  wounded animal, crawling through the brush and arroyo outside the  southern Colorado canyon.    And it was animal cunning which preserved him. He'd wandered several  days until he encountered Emil Grizek and his outfit. By that time he  was half-starved and completely delirious. It took a month until he  was up and around again.    But Emil and the boys had nursed him through. They took turns caring  for him in the bunkhouse; their methods were crude but efficient and  Harry was grateful. Best of all, they asked no questions. Harry's  status was that of a hunted fugitive, without a Vocational Apt record  or rating. The authorities or any prospective employers would inquire  into these things, but Emil Grizek never seemed curious. By the time  Harry was up and around again, he'd been accepted as one of the bunch.  He told them his name was Harry Sanders, and that was enough.    Two months after they found him, he'd signed on with Emil Grizek and  found a new role in life.    Harry Collins, advertising copywriter, had become Harry Sanders,  working cowhand. 
