 out observation parties. Once we determine the exact situation, we can  plan accordingly. The world is going to need what we can give. It will  use what we have learned. It will accept our aid. One of these days--"    And he went on to outline a carefully-calculated program of making  contact with the powers that be, or might be. It sounded logical and  even the chronic grumblers and habitual pessimists in the group were  encouraged.    If at times they felt the situation fantastic and the hope forlorn,  they were heartened now. Richard Wade summed it up succinctly  afterwards, in a private conversation with Harry.    "It isn't going to be easy," he said. "In the old science fiction  yarns I used to write, a group like this would have been able to  prevent the revolution. At the very least, it would decide who won if  fighting actually broke out. But in reality we were too late to  forestall revolt, and we couldn't win the war no matter on whose side  we fought. There's just one job we're equipped for--and that's to win  the peace. I don't mean we'll step out of here and take over the  world, either. We'll have to move slowly and cautiously, dispersing in  little groups of five or six all over the country. And we'll have to  sound out men in the communities we go to, find those who are willing  to learn and willing to build. But we can be an influence, and an  important one. We have the knowledge and the skill. We may not be  chosen to lead, but we can _teach_ the leaders. And that's important."    Harry smiled in agreement. They _did_ have something to offer, and  surely it would be recognized--even if the Naturalists had won, even  if the entire country had sunk into semi-barbarism. No use  anticipating such problems now. Wait until fall came; then they'd  reconnoitre and find out. Wait until fall--    It was a wise decision, but one which ignored a single, important  fact. The Naturalists didn't wait until fall to conduct their  reconnaissance.    They came over the canyon that very night; a large group of them in a 
