 As he'd suspected, the school was located in the old canyon, right in  the same buildings which had once served as experimental units. How  many youngsters were there, Harry didn't know. Maybe Manschoff was  still on the staff, and maybe they'd brought in a whole new staff.  These things didn't matter. What mattered was that Leffingwell was on  the premises. And a man who knew his way about, a man who worked alone  and to a single purpose, could reach him.    Thus it was that Harry Collins crouched behind the boulder that bright  May morning and waited for Dr. Leffingwell to appear. The helicopter  had dropped him at the upper end of the canyon the day before, giving  him a chance to reconnoitre and familiarize himself with the terrain  once again. He'd located Leffingwell's quarters, even seen the man  through one of the lower windows. Harry had no trouble recognizing  him; the face was only too familiar from a thousand 'casts viewed on a  thousand screens. Inevitably, some time today, he'd emerge from the  building. And when he did, Harry would be waiting.    He shifted behind the rocks and stretched his legs. Twelve years had  passed, and now he'd come full circle. The whole business had started  here, and here it must end. That was simple justice.    _And it is justice_, Harry told himself. _It's not revenge._ Because  there'd be no point to revenge; that was only melodramatic nonsense.  He was no Monte Cristo, come to wreak vengeance on his cruel  oppressors. And he was no madman, no victim of a monomaniacal  obsession. What he was doing was the result of lengthy and logical  consideration.    If Harry Collins, longtime fugitive from a government treatment  center, tried to take his story to the people, he'd be silenced  without a hearing. But his story must be heard. There was only one way  to arrest the attention of a nation--with the report of a rifle.    A bullet in Leffingwell's brain; that was the solution of the problem.  Overnight the assassin would become a national figure. They'd  undoubtedly try him and undoubtedly condemn him, but first he'd have  his day in court. He'd get a chance to speak out. He'd give all the 
