on earth.  Mystery and darkness had hung about the men who hunted me  over the Scotch moor in aeroplane and motor-car, and notably about that  infernal antiquarian.  It was easy enough to connect those folk with  the knife that pinned Scudder to the floor, and with fell designs on  the world's peace.  But here were two guileless citizens taking their  innocuous exercise, and soon about to go indoors to a humdrum dinner,  where they would talk of market prices and the last cricket scores and  the gossip of their native Surbiton.  I had been making a net to catch  vultures and falcons, and lo and behold! two plump thrushes had  blundered into it.    Presently a third figure arrived, a young man on a bicycle, with a bag  of golf-clubs slung on his back.  He strolled round to the tennis lawn  and was welcomed riotously by the players.  Evidently they were  chaffing him, and their chaff sounded horribly English.  Then the plump  man, mopping his brow with a silk handkerchief, announced that he must  have a tub.  I heard his very words--'I've got into a proper lather,'  he said.  'This will bring down my weight and my handicap, Bob.  I'll  take you on tomorrow and give you a stroke a hole.'  You couldn't find  anything much more English than that.    They all went into the house, and left me feeling a precious idiot.  I  had been barking up the wrong tree this time.  These men might be  acting; but if they were, where was their audience?  They didn't know I  was sitting thirty yards off in a rhododendron.  It was simply  impossible to believe that these three hearty fellows were anything but  what they seemed--three ordinary, game-playing, suburban Englishmen,  wearisome, if you like, but sordidly innocent.    And yet there were three of them; and one was old, and one was plump,  and one was lean and dark; and their house chimed in with Scudder's  notes; and half a mile off was lying a steam yacht with at least one  German officer.  I thought of Karolides lying dead and all Europe 
