  'For ninety per cent in ony ballot. I don't say that there's not plenty  of riff-raff--the pint-and-a-dram gentry and the soft-heads that are  aye reading bits of newspapers, and muddlin' their wits with foreign  whigmaleeries. But the average man on the Clyde, like the average man  in ither places, hates just three things, and that's the Germans, the  profiteers, as they call them, and the Irish. But he hates the Germans  first.'    'The Irish!' I exclaimed in astonishment.    'Ay, the Irish,' cried the last of the old Border radicals. 'Glasgow's  stinkin' nowadays with two things, money and Irish. I mind the day when  I followed Mr Gladstone's Home Rule policy, and used to threep about  the noble, generous, warm-hearted sister nation held in a foreign  bondage. My Goad! I'm not speakin' about Ulster, which is a dour,  ill-natured den, but our own folk all the same. But the men that will  not do a hand's turn to help the war and take the chance of our  necessities to set up a bawbee rebellion are hateful to Goad and man.  We treated them like pet lambs and that's the thanks we get. They're  coming over here in thousands to tak the jobs of the lads that are  doing their duty. I was speakin' last week to a widow woman that keeps  a wee dairy down the Dalmarnock Road. She has two sons, and both in the  airmy, one in the Cameronians and one a prisoner in Germany. She was  telling me that she could not keep goin' any more, lacking the help of  the boys, though she had worked her fingers to the bone. "Surely it's a  crool job, Mr Amos," she says, "that the Goavernment should tak baith  my laddies, and I'll maybe never see them again, and let the Irish gang  free and tak the bread frae our mouth. At the gasworks across the road  they took on a hundred Irish last week, and every yin o' them as young  and well set up as you would ask to see. And my wee Davie, him that's  in Germany, had aye a weak chest, and Jimmy was troubled wi' a bowel  complaint. That's surely no justice!". ...' 
