Livingstone_, a child's book on sea-shells, and a richly gilt edition  of the poems of one James Montgomery. I offered the selection to Mr  Linklater, who grinned and chose the Missionary Child. 'It's not the  reading I'm accustomed to,' he said. 'I like strong meat--Hall Caine  and Jack London. By the way, how d'ye square this business of yours wi'  the booksellers? When I was in Matheson's there would have been trouble  if we had dealt direct wi' the public like you.'    The confounded fellow started to talk about the details of the book  trade, of which I knew nothing. He wanted to know on what terms we sold  'juveniles', and what discount we gave the big wholesalers, and what  class of book we put out 'on sale'. I didn't understand a word of his  jargon, and I must have given myself away badly, for he asked me  questions about firms of which I had never heard, and I had to make  some kind of answer. I told myself that the donkey was harmless, and  that his opinion of me mattered nothing, but as soon as I decently  could I pretended to be absorbed in the _Pilgrim's Progress_, a gaudy  copy of which was among the samples. It opened at the episode of  Christian and Hopeful in the Enchanted Ground, and in that stuffy  carriage I presently followed the example of Heedless and Too-Bold and  fell sound asleep. I was awakened by the train rumbling over the points  of a little moorland junction. Sunk in a pleasing lethargy, I sat with  my eyes closed, and then covertly took a glance at my companion. He had  abandoned the Missionary Child and was reading a little dun-coloured  book, and marking passages with a pencil. His face was absorbed, and it  was a new face, not the vacant, good-humoured look of the garrulous  bagman, but something shrewd, purposeful, and formidable. I remained  hunched up as if still sleeping, and tried to see what the book was.  But my eyes, good as they are, could make out nothing of the text or  title, except that I had a very strong impression that that book was  not written in the English tongue.   
