sat its owner, bound and gagged, as others had sat before him on the  same errand. Geordie Hamilton and Amos were his companions. From what  Blenkiron had himself discovered and from the papers seized in the Pink  Chalet I had full details of the road and its mysterious stages. It was  like the journey of a mad dream. In a back street of a little town I  would exchange passwords with a nameless figure and be given  instructions. At a wayside inn at an appointed hour a voice speaking a  thick German would advise that this bridge or that railway crossing had  been cleared. At a hamlet among pine woods an unknown man would clamber  up beside me and take me past a sentry-post. Smooth as clockwork was  the machine, till in the dawn of a spring morning I found myself  dropping into a broad valley through little orchards just beginning to  blossom, and I knew that I was in France. After that, Blenkiron's own  arrangements began, and soon I was drinking coffee with a young  lieutenant of Chasseurs, and had taken the gag from Ivery's mouth. The  bluecoats looked curiously at the man in the green ulster whose face  was the colour of clay and who lit cigarette from cigarette with a  shaky hand.    The lieutenant rang up a General of Division who knew all about us. At  his headquarters I explained my purpose, and he telegraphed to an Army  Headquarters for a permission which was granted. It was not for nothing  that in January I had seen certain great personages in Paris, and that  Blenkiron had wired ahead of me to prepare the way. Here I handed over  Ivery and his guard, for I wanted them to proceed to Amiens under  French supervision, well knowing that the men of that great army are  not used to let slip what they once hold.    It was a morning of clear spring sunlight when we breakfasted in that  little red-roofed town among vineyards with a shining river looping at  our feet. The General of Division was an Algerian veteran with a brush  of grizzled hair, whose eye kept wandering to a map on the wall where  pins and stretched thread made a spider's web. 
