he came to see her. That showed the boldness of the man, and his  cleverness, for the whole secret police of France were after him and  they never got within sight or sound. Yet here he was coming openly in  the afternoon to have tea with an English girl. It showed another  thing, which made me blaspheme. A man so resolute and single-hearted in  his job must have been pretty badly in love to take a risk like that.    He came, and he called himself the Capitaine Bommaerts, with a  transport job on the staff of the French G.Q.G. He was on the staff  right enough too. Mary said that when she heard that name she nearly  fell down. He was quite frank with her, and she with him. They are both  peacemakers, ready to break the laws of any land for the sake of a  great ideal. Goodness knows what stuff they talked together. Mary said  she would blush to think of it till her dying day, and I gathered that  on her side it was a mixture of Launcelot Wake at his most pedantic and  schoolgirl silliness.    He came again, and they met often, unbeknown to the decorous Madame de  Mezieres. They walked together in the Bois de Boulogne, and once, with  a beating heart, she motored with him to Auteuil for luncheon. He spoke  of his house in Picardy, and there were moments, I gathered, when he  became the declared lover, to be rebuffed with a hoydenish shyness.  Presently the pace became too hot, and after some anguished arguments  with Bullivant on the long-distance telephone she went off to  Douvecourt to Lady Manorwater's hospital. She went there to escape from  him, but mainly, I think, to have a look--trembling in every limb, mind  you--at the Chateau of Eaucourt Sainte-Anne.    I had only to think of Mary to know just what Joan of Arc was. No man  ever born could have done that kind of thing. It wasn't recklessness.  It was sheer calculating courage.    Then Blenkiron took up the tale. The newspaper we found that Christmas  Eve in the Chateau was of tremendous importance, for Bommaerts had  pricked out in the advertisement the very special second cipher of the 
