St Anton    Ten days later the porter Joseph Zimmer of Arosa, clad in the tough and  shapeless trousers of his class, but sporting an old velveteen  shooting-coat bequeathed to him by a former German master--speaking the  guttural tongue of the Grisons, and with all his belongings in one  massive rucksack, came out of the little station of St Anton and  blinked in the frosty sunshine. He looked down upon the little old  village beside its icebound lake, but his business was with the new  village of hotels and villas which had sprung up in the last ten years  south of the station. He made some halting inquiries of the station  people, and a cab-driver outside finally directed him to the place he  sought--the cottage of the Widow Summermatter, where resided an English  intern, one Peter Pienaar.    The porter Joseph Zimmer had had a long and roundabout journey. A  fortnight before he had worn the uniform of a British major-general. As  such he had been the inmate of an expensive Paris hotel, till one  morning, in grey tweed clothes and with a limp, he had taken the  Paris-Mediterranean Express with a ticket for an officers' convalescent  home at Cannes. Thereafter he had declined in the social scale. At  Dijon he had been still an Englishman, but at Pontarlier he had become  an American bagman of Swiss parentage, returning to wind up his  father's estate. At Berne he limped excessively, and at Zurich, at a  little back-street hotel, he became frankly the peasant. For he met a  friend there from whom he acquired clothes with that odd rank smell,  far stronger than Harris tweed, which marks the raiment of most Swiss  guides and all Swiss porters. He also acquired a new name and an old  aunt, who a little later received him with open arms and explained to  her friends that he was her brother's son from Arosa who three winters  ago had hurt his leg wood-cutting and had been discharged from the levy.    A kindly Swiss gentleman, as it chanced, had heard of the deserving  Joseph and interested himself to find him employment. The said  philanthropist made a hobby of the French and British prisoners 
