two wings--the old Boche plan which crops up in every fight. He left  our centre at first pretty well alone, and thrust along the river bank  and to the wood of La Bruyere, where we linked up with the division on  our right. Lefroy was in the first area, and Masterton in the second,  and for three hours it was as desperate a business as I have ever faced  ... The improvised switch went, and more and more of the forward zone  disappeared. It was a hot, clear spring afternoon, and in the open  fighting the enemy came on like troops at manoeuvres. On the left they  got into the battle-zone, and I can see yet Lefroy's great figure  leading a counter-attack in person, his face all puddled with blood  from a scalp wound ...    I would have given my soul to be in two places at once, but I had to  risk our left and keep close to Masterton, who needed me most. The wood  of La Bruyere was the maddest sight. Again and again the Boche was  almost through it. You never knew where he was, and most of the  fighting there was duels between machine-gun parties. Some of the enemy  got round behind us, and only a fine performance of a company of  Cheshires saved a complete breakthrough.    As for Lefroy, I don't know how he stuck it out, and he doesn't know  himself, for he was galled all the time by that accursed flanking fire.  I got a note about half past four saying that Wake had crossed the  river, but it was some weary hours after that before the fire  slackened. I tore back and forward between my wings, and every time I  went north I expected to find that Lefroy had broken. But by some  miracle he held. The Boches were in his battle-zone time and again, but  he always flung them out. I have a recollection of Blenkiron, stark  mad, encouraging his Americans with strange tongues. Once as I passed  him I saw that he had his left arm tied up. His blackened face grinned  at me. 'This bit of landscape's mighty unsafe for democracy,' he  croaked. 'For the love of Mike get your guns on to those devils across 
