suitable places in which a clerical staff could perform clerical  duties.    Lord HARCOURT begged to suggest that such a disregard of a national  trust was a treachery.    Sir Buffer Stayte said that, although in ordinary times such might be  the case, it was not so in war-time or while the Defence of the  Realm Act was in force. Under Dora's sanction all black was white.  Personally he had every belief in the efficiency of the staffs now  employed in the various public galleries and museums. He had seen them  arrive late and leave early--he meant arrive early and leave late--and  could not sufficiently admire their willingness to put up with the  dismal surroundings of pictures and curiosities.    Mr. ROBERT WITT, one of the Trustees of the National Gallery, said  that it was inconceivable to him as a business man that even if so  many clerks should still be required there was not a more reasonable  place for them than Trafalgar Square.    Sir Thomas Tannin, K.B.E., speaking for his own Government department,  said that it was evident that Mr. WITT did not fully realise the  position. These were historic and abnormal times and abnormal measures  were necessary. We thought in high numbers, and therefore high numbers  of clerks were needed. Trafalgar Square was as conveniently central a  spot as could be found; hence their presence there. It had also been  pointed out by the chiefs of the Government Clerks' Tea Advisory Board  that the facilities for obtaining more water for boiling were unusual  on account of the proximity of the two great fountains. If anybody  could suggest a better place for the accommodation of all these young  ladies he would be glad to know of it. The only suggestion yet made  had reference to buildings which, having been designed for office  work, were obviously unsuitable. Another reason for keeping them on  was their cost. Economy in one direction might lead to economy  in another, and the whole fabric of the now bureaucracy would be  threatened. It was therefore useless to hope for any early change.    Sir SIDNEY LEE pointed out that, owing to the occupation of a large  
