 I cannot conceal from myself that I am a great acquisition to the  Army of Occupation. My knowledge of the language being far and away  superior to that of any other British officer for miles around, I am  looked upon by the natives as a sort of high military authority in  whom they may have the privilege and the pleasure of confiding all  their troubles. According to the intensity of their various desires  I am addressed _crescendo_ as "Herr Ober-Leutenant," or "Herr  Hauptmann," or "Herr Majeur," or "Herr Commandant." They always  approach me in a becomingly servile attitude--cap or hat in hand--and  await with obvious tension my weighty pronouncements. They hide round  corners and wait behind doors or down narrow passages until I come  past, and then they spring out on me.    "What about the coal we are burning? The electric light we are using?  Who is going to pay?" "So-and-so's charlady, who was out obliging  another lady, had a breadknife pinched while she was away from home.  Was it one of my _Soldaten_, perhaps? Did I know anything about it,  and if so, would I punish the evildoer and restore the implement?"    The village expert in calf-delivery wants to know whether, in the case  of the happy event taking place after 9 P.M. (which it usually does),  I would give him permission to leave his home after closing hours, so  that he might assist at the function.    The local yokels of this spot and its neighbouring villages want to  resume their bi-weekly choral society meetings but cannot reach  the rendezvous until 8.45 P.M., which leaves them just a  quarter-of-an-hour to have their practice and to take cover for the  night. "Would the high-well-born be so fearfully gracious as to allow  them to continue until 10 P.M.?"    To be suddenly taken unawares and to have such conundrums volleyed at  you in a strange tongue is apt to be rather exhausting. However I have  a reputation to live up to and must be as frightful as possible.  I find the best thing to do is to refer them to the nearest  notice-board, which reads:--    HALT!    
