  "It was also obvious what our fate would be if we continued in those  marked billets, so we moved out, bag and baggage, into a sunken road  near by and spent the night there in the rain and muck, and were most  uncomfortable. What puzzled us rather was that the Hun did not shell  our old billets that night--that is, nothing out of the ordinary. 'But  that's only his cunning,' we consoled ourselves; 'he knows we know he  knows, and he's trying to lure us back. Ah, no, old friend.'    "So we camped miserably on in that sunken sewer. He dropped a lucky  one through a barn the same afternoon and lobbed a few wides over  during the next night, but again nothing out of the ordinary.    "We were more and more puzzled. Then, just about breakfast-time on  the second morning, in walks de Blavincourt himself, green as to the  complexion and wounded in the arm, but otherwise intact. I leapt upon  him, snarling, 'Where's that map?'    "'I got 'im, Sir,' he gulped, 'safe' (gulp).    "This was his story. He had remembered the corporal shouting  something, but so intent on his work was he that he hardly noticed the  warning until suddenly, to his horror, he perceived a party of Huns  creeping out of a passage _behind him_. He was cut off! They had not  seen him for the moment, so quick as thought he slipped into the  nearest house, turned into a front room--a sort of parlour place--and  crouched there, wondering what to do.    "He was not left wondering long, for the Bosches followed him into  that very house. There was a small table in one corner covered with  a large cloth. Under this de Blavincourt dived, and not a second too  soon, for the Bosches--seven of them--followed him into that very room  and, setting up their machine gun at the window, commenced to pop  off down the street. Charming state of affairs for little de  Blavincourt--alone and unarmed in a room full of bristling Huns with  that fatal map in his possession.    "Sweating all over he eased the map out of his pocket and slowly and 
