 [Illustration: THE PERIL WITHOUT.]    *       *       *       *       *    ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.    _Monday, March 24th_.--The Archbishop of CANTERBURY sought from the  Government a clear statement of policy regarding the repatriation of  enemy aliens, and incidentally paid a high tribute to the British  Press, which, we were glad to hear, contains "nobody who desires to  fabricate baseless statements."    He was supported by Lord LAMBOURNE, who as a member of the Advisory  Committee knows all about aliens, and declared that "Repatriate them  all" was a foolish cry, if it meant that we were expected to present  Germany with the British wives and children of the dear deported.    Lord JERSEY, for the Government, desired to treat even Germans justly,  but could not see why anyone should wish in these times to increase  our alien population. His speech did not please a batch of noble  sentimentalists, drawn from both sides, but seemed to give great  satisfaction to Lord LINCOLNSHIRE, who quoted with approval the brave  words on the subject uttered by the LORD CHANCELLOR at the General  Election, before his style had been mollified by the Woolsack.    In the Commons Mr. BONAR LAW regretfully explained that it was  impossible for the Government to do anything to reduce the high prices  now being charged for furniture in the East End. His own experience as  a Cabinet-maker has been entirely confined to the West End.    Nor could the Government take any direct steps to ameliorate the  overcrowding on the Underground railways. But, as it was stated that  large quantities of leather are still being purchased on Government  account, there are hopes that more accommodation for strap-hangers may  shortly be available.    _Tuesday, March 25th_.--The Lords spent three hours of almost  unrelieved gloom in discussing the financial condition of the country.  On that old problem of the economists, "What is a pound?" Lord  D'ABERNON delivered an erudite discourse, from which I gathered that  it was at present about ten shillings and still shrinking. The only 
