  OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.    _(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)_    I found myself as much taken with the title of _The Great  Interruption_ (HUTCHINSON) as with any of the dozen short war-stories  that Mr. W.B. MAXWELL has collected in the volume. Yet these are  admirable of their kind--"muffin-tales" is my own name for them, of  just the length to hold your attention for a solitary tea-hour and  each with some novelty of idea or distinction in treatment that makes  the next page worth turning. The central theme of all is, of course,  the same: the War in its effect upon people at the fighting front and  elsewhere. Perhaps it was inevitable that Mr. MAXWELL should betray a  certain faintly cynical amusement in his dealings with the people of  elsewhere. Two of the stories especially--"The Strain of It" and "What  Edie Regretted"--are grimly illustrative of some home-keeping types  for whom the great tragedy served only as an opportunity for social  advancement or a pleasantly-thrilling excuse for futilities. There  will be no reader who will not smilingly acknowledge the justice of  these sketches; not one of us whose neighbours could not supply an  original for them. Fortunately the book has other tales of which the  humour is less caustic; probably of intention Mr. MAXWELL'S pictures  of war as the soldier knew it, its hardships and compensations,  contrast poignantly with the others. On the active-service side my  choice would undoubtedly be for the admirably cheery and well-told  "Christmas is Christmas" (not exactly about fraternization), as  convincing a realisation of the Front at its best as any I remember to  have read in more pretentious volumes.    I am bound to admit that for all my appreciation of Mr. J.D. BERESFORD  as a literary craftsman I did find _The Jervaise Comedy_ (COLLINS)  a bit slow off the mark. Here is a quite considerable volume,  exquisitely printed upon delightful paper, all about the events of  twenty-four hours, in which, when you come to consider it afterwards,  nothing very much happened. The heroine thought about eloping with the  chauffeur, and the onlooker, who tells the tale, thought about  falling in love with the sister of the same. In both cases thought is 
