   "Yes," said the prisoner mildly. "But observe."    Somewhat diffidently he removed his collar and held it up to view.  "You call this a clean, white, shiny collar? Well, it's not.  Fawn-colour, if you like; speckled--yes; but white--clean? No! Believe  me," continued Mr. Bingley-Spyker, warming to his subject, "it's years  since I've had a genuinely clean collar from my laundry. Mostly they  are speckled. And the specks are usually in a conspicuous position;  one on each wing is a favourite combination. I grant you these can be  removed by a penknife, but imperfectly and with damage to the fabric.  When what I may call the main portion of the collar is affected, the  speckled area may occasionally be concealed by a careful disposition  of one's tie. But not often. The laundress, with diabolical cunning,  takes care to place her trade-mark as near the top rim as possible.  I have not by any means exhausted the subject," he concluded, "but I  think I have said enough to clear myself of this particular charge."    It seemed then to Mr. Bingley-Spyker that all the members of the  Tribunal were shouting together. On the whole he gathered that he had  not improved his position. He had been "attacking the proletariat."    "'Ard-working gyurls," panted a woman-member excitedly, "toilin' and  moilin' at wash-tubs and mangles for the likes of 'im! It's a rope  collar he wants, Mr. President. Make it a 'anging matter, I should."    "Silence, comrades!" commanded the President. "Let me deal with 'im.  Prisoner, the Tribunal finds you guilty of wearing a collar,  contrary to the regulations. Collars are the 'all-marks of a slave  civilization; they 'ave no place in a free state. The sentence of the  Court is that you be committed to a State laundry for ten years, with  'ard labour, principally at mangles. Remove the prisoner."    So they removed Mr. Bingley-Spyker....    He was glad when he woke up to find himself in his own room in his  own Government office at Whitehall, with the afternoon sun streaming  deliciously through the windows. Involuntarily he felt for his collar.    *       *       *       *       * 
