cost of the spirit plus pre-war taxation. The other five-and-sixpence  is made up of interest to manufacturers, insurance and rent; increased  price of bottles and corks; margins of profit to blenders and  bottlers, merchants and other traders; and increase of taxation. By  some oversight nothing appears to have been charged for the extra  water, but no doubt this will be remedied in the next Budget.    _Thursday, March 27th._--To those who remember the debates on the  Parliament Act, _circa_ 1911, it was amusing to hear Lords CREWE and  BUCKMASTER complaining of the unceremonious manner in which the Lords'  amendments to the Rents Bill had been treated in "another place;"  and being entreated not to pick a quarrel with the Commons by those  ancient champions of the Upper Chamber, Lord CURZON and the LORD  CHANCELLOR.    The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER announced the names of the Royal  Commissioners who are to consider how the income-tax can be improved.  Several Members complained that there is only one woman among them,  and that, pending their report (expected some time next year), the  glaring anomaly by which husband and wife are regarded for taxable  purposes as a single entity is apparently to be continued. The idea of  presenting Mr. CHAMBERLAIN with a box for _The Purse Strings,_ in the  hope that it would convert him, has unfortunately been frustrated by  the withdrawal of the play.    Mr. BONAR LAW'S determination to leave the Cippenham question to the  free judgment of the House led (as possibly he anticipated) to its  expressing no judgment at all. Sir DONALD MACLEAN and others served up  a rather insipid _réchauffé_ of Lord DESBOROUGH'S indictment, and Mr.  CHURCHILL repeated Lord INVERFORTH'S defence, but put a little more  ginger into it. Incidentally he mentioned that a prolonged search for  the nonagenarian pensioner had produced nobody more venerable than  a comparative youngster of sixty-five. Deprived of this prop the  Opposition felt unequal to walking through the Lobbies.    *       *       *       *       *    
