 to know what is being said about them, to enable them to confirm or  disavow these disquieting speculations. The papers simply teem with  secret histories of the week, diaries of omniscient pundits and so  forth, in which these rumours multiply to an extent that staggers the  plain person.    Take the PREMIER to begin with. Is it really true that he has decided,  as the brain of the Empire can only be located in Printing House  Square, to resign office and become home editor of _The Times_,  leaving foreign policy to be controlled by Mr. WICKHAM STEED? Is it  true that he meditates appointing Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN Minister of Fine  Arts? Is it true that he flies every day from Paris to Mentone, to  receive instructions from a Mysterious Nobleman who is shortly to be  raised to ducal honours? Is it true that until quite recently he had  never heard of JOAN OF ARC and thought that VICTOR HUGO was a Roman  emperor?    Then there is Mr. BONAR LAW. He surely ought to know that it is said  by _The Job_ and _The Morning Ghost_ that he informed Mr. SMILLIE,  during one of their recent conversations, that he hoped, in the event  of a general strike, to be allowed to get away to the small island in  the South Pacific which he has purchased as a refuge in case of such a  contingency. Probably such an idea never entered his head. But this  is what he is supposed to be planning. Let him therefore disclaim the  intention promptly and publicly.    Grievous mischief again is being done by the persistent rumours  current about the intention of the LORD CHANCELLOR to take Orders with  the view of becoming Archbishop of Canterbury at the earliest possible  opportunity. There may be absolutely nothing in it. Mr. HAROLD SMITH  scouts the notion as absurd. But very great men do not always confide  in brothers. NAPOLEON, as we know, thought poorly of his.    Lastly, is it true that, although Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN is still  _nominally_ Chancellor of the Exchequer, he is really a prisoner in  the Tower, conveyed under guard to and from the House, and that the 
