It was perhaps a little unfortunate that _Aïda_ should have been given  on the night of the Guards' march through London, for the parade of  the Pharaoh's scratch soldiery suffered badly by comparison. The  priesthood of Isis, too, furnished more humour than could, I think,  have been designed, and I doubt if even Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH could  have given us anything funnier than the spectacle presented by the  Egyptian monarch when making his announcement of an Ethiopian raid.  Nor shall I easily forget the figure of the King of Ethiopia, with  a head of hair like a Zulu's, and swathed in a tiger-skin. I should  myself have chosen the hide of a leopard, for the leopard cannot  change his spots nor the Ethiopian his skin, and when you get the two  together you have an extraordinarily durable combination.    It would be false flattery to say that Miss ROSINA BUCKMAN quite  looked the part of _Aïda_, or Miss EDNA THORNTON that of _Amneris_,  but they both sang finely, and the orchestra did great work under Mr.  EUGENE GOOSSENS, Sen.    In _Louise_, again, it was the orchestra, cleverly steered by Sir  THOMAS BEECHAM through the difficult score for the choruses, that  sustained us through the banalities of an opera which has only one  dramatic moment--when her father hastens the eviction of _Louise_ by  throwing a chair at her, very well aimed by Mr. ROBERT RADFORD, who  only just missed his mark. I suppose it is hopeless to expect that the  makers of "Grand" Opera (whose sense of humour is seldom their strong  point) will consent to allow the trivialities of ordinary speech in  everyday life ("How do you do?" "Thank you, I am not feeling my  best," and so on) to be said--if they _must_ find expression of some  sort--and not sung.    By way of contrast to the modern realism which makes so unlikely a  material for serious opera, the fantastic irresponsibility of _The  Magic Flute_ came as a great relief. Its simpler music, serenely  sampling the whole gamut of emotions, grave to gay, offered equal  chances (all taken) to the pure love-singing of Miss AGNES NICHOLLS  as _Pamina_, and Mr. MAURICE D'OISLY as _Tamino_, the light-hearted 
