 "I was with the Fifth Army last year when the wave swept us. We were  fairly swamped for the moment and all nohow. One evening, retreating  on my own line, I came upon some little village--can't remember the  name just now, but you know the sort of thing--typical Somme hamlet, a  smear of brick-dust with a big notice-board on top, saying, 'THIS IS  LE SARS,' or 'POZIÈRES,' or whatever its name was. Anyway, in this  village I found a Divisional H.Q., four Brigade H.Q.'s, and oddities  of all sorts sitting one on top of t'other waiting for the next thing  to happen. The next thing was a single wounded lancer who happened in  about four in the morning with the glad tidings that Bosch tanks were  advancing on us". Questioned further he admitted that he had  only actually seen one and that in the dark. But it was the  great-grandfather of all tanks, according to the chap; it stood twenty  foot high; it 'roared and rumbled' in its career, and it careered by  steam.    "It wasn't any manner of use assuring him that there wasn't a steam  tank on anybody's front. He said there was, and we couldn't move him.    "'I saw steam coming from it in clouds,' be mumbled, 'and sparks and  smoke.' Then he crumpled slowly on the floor, fast asleep.    "The Divisional General was properly mystified.    "'If only I had a single field-gun or even some gelignite,' he  groaned; then turning to me, 'I must get the strength of this; it  may be some new frightfulness the Hun is springing. You're an old  horse-soldier, I believe? Well, jump on your gee and go scout the  thing, will you?'    "I scratched together a rag and bobtail patrol of grooms and pushed  off just before daybreak. Our people had the edge of the village  manned with every rifle they could collect. A subaltern lying ear to  earth hailed me as I passed. 'It's coming,' he called.    "A quarter of a mile further on I could hear the roaring and rumbling  myself without lying on the road.    "Light was breaking fast, but there were wisps and shreds of fog 
