 longings but all his explicit acquired characteristics, so that when,  with the decent old ape, _Akut_, disguised as his invalid grandmother,  he sails away from England and plunges into the wild he promptly  becomes the terror of the jungle and bites the jugular veins of  hostile man and beast with such a precision of technique that he  becomes king of the ape-folk, as his father, _Tarzan_, had been before  him. Plausibility, even within the limits of his bizarre plan, is  not Mr. BURROUGHS' strong suit, but exciting incident, ingeniously  imagined and staged, with swift movement, undoubtedly is. If the  author wouldn't let his favourites off so easily and would give their  enemies a better sporting chance, he would more readily sustain the  illusion which is of the essence of real enjoyment in this kind of  fantasy. But I imagine the normal human boy will find nothing whatever  to complain of, and to him I chiefly commend this yarn.    *       *       *       *       *    _The Tale of Mr. Tubbs_ (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is one of those which  hover agreeably between low comedy and refined farce, in a world  which, being frankly to the last degree improbable, makes no urgent  demand for belief. Sometimes indeed (as I have observed before with  Mr. J.E. BUCKROSE) the characters themselves are more credible  than the way in which they carry on. Thus while _Mr. Tubbs_, the  middle-aged and high-principled champion of distress, is both human  and likeable, I was never persuaded that any more real motive than  regard for an amusing situation would compel him to saddle himself  with the continued society of a squint-eyed maid-servant and her  yellow cat, turned adrift through his unfortunate attempts to befriend  them. I think I need not tell you all, or even a part of all, that  happens to _Mr. Tubbs_ and _Belinda_ and the yellow cat after their  arrival as fugitives at the pleasant village of Holmes-Eaton, or do  more than hint at the trials of this poor knight-errant, mistaken  for a burglar and a libertine, till the hour when (the book being 
