twenty-five miles along the seacoast and some fifty miles inland.  This  they traversed almost continually, occasionally remaining for months in  one locality; but as they moved through the trees with great speed they  often covered the territory in a very few days.    Much depended upon food supply, climatic conditions, and the prevalence  of animals of the more dangerous species; though Kerchak often led them  on long marches for no other reason than that he had tired of remaining  in the same place.    At night they slept where darkness overtook them, lying upon the  ground, and sometimes covering their heads, and more seldom their  bodies, with the great leaves of the elephant's ear.  Two or three  might lie cuddled in each other's arms for additional warmth if the  night were chill, and thus Tarzan had slept in Kala's arms nightly for  all these years.    That the huge, fierce brute loved this child of another race is beyond  question, and he, too, gave to the great, hairy beast all the affection  that would have belonged to his fair young mother had she lived.    When he was disobedient she cuffed him, it is true, but she was never  cruel to him, and was more often caressing him than chastising him.    Tublat, her mate, always hated Tarzan, and on several occasions had  come near ending his youthful career.    Tarzan on his part never lost an opportunity to show that he fully  reciprocated his foster father's sentiments, and whenever he could  safely annoy him or make faces at him or hurl insults upon him from the  safety of his mother's arms, or the slender branches of the higher  trees, he did so.    His superior intelligence and cunning permitted him to invent a  thousand diabolical tricks to add to the burdens of Tublat's life.    Early in his boyhood he had learned to form ropes by twisting and tying  long grasses together, and with these he was forever tripping Tublat or  attempting to hang him from some overhanging branch.    By constant playing and experimenting with these he learned to tie rude  knots, and make sliding nooses; and with these he and the younger apes 
