instinctively leave the district entirely, seldom if ever to return;  and thus it has always been with the great anthropoids.  They flee man  as man flees a pestilence.    For a short time the tribe of Tarzan lingered in the vicinity of the  beach because their new chief hated the thought of leaving the  treasured contents of the little cabin forever.  But when one day a  member of the tribe discovered the blacks in great numbers on the banks  of a little stream that had been their watering place for generations,  and in the act of clearing a space in the jungle and erecting many  huts, the apes would remain no longer; and so Tarzan led them inland  for many marches to a spot as yet undefiled by the foot of a human  being.    Once every moon Tarzan would go swinging rapidly back through the  swaying branches to have a day with his books, and to replenish his  supply of arrows.  This latter task was becoming more and more  difficult, for the blacks had taken to hiding their supply away at  night in granaries and living huts.    This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where  the arrows were being concealed.    Twice had he entered huts at night while the inmates lay sleeping upon  their mats, and stolen the arrows from the very sides of the warriors.  But this method he realized to be too fraught with danger, and so he  commenced picking up solitary hunters with his long, deadly noose,  stripping them of weapons and ornaments and dropping their bodies from  a high tree into the village street during the still watches of the  night.    These various escapades again so terrorized the blacks that, had it not  been for the monthly respite between Tarzan's visits, in which they had  opportunity to renew hope that each fresh incursion would prove the  last, they soon would have abandoned their new village.    The blacks had not as yet come upon Tarzan's cabin on the distant  beach, but the ape-man lived in constant dread that, while he was away  with the tribe, they would discover and despoil his treasure.  So it 
