  About three o'clock in the afternoon they came about off a beautiful  wooded shore opposite the mouth of what appeared to be a land-locked  harbor.    Black Michael sent a small boat filled with men to sound the entrance  in an effort to determine if the Fuwalda could be safely worked through  the entrance.    In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the  passage as well as far into the little basin.    Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of  the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.    The surrounding shores were beautiful with semitropical verdure, while  in the distance the country rose from the ocean in hill and tableland,  almost uniformly clothed by primeval forest.    No signs of habitation were visible, but that the land might easily  support human life was evidenced by the abundant bird and animal life  of which the watchers on the Fuwalda's deck caught occasional glimpses,  as well as by the shimmer of a little river which emptied into the  harbor, insuring fresh water in plenitude.    As darkness settled upon the earth, Clayton and Lady Alice still stood  by the ship's rail in silent contemplation of their future abode.  From  the dark shadows of the mighty forest came the wild calls of savage  beasts--the deep roar of the lion, and, occasionally, the shrill scream  of a panther.    The woman shrank closer to the man in terror-stricken anticipation of  the horrors lying in wait for them in the awful blackness of the nights  to come, when they should be alone upon that wild and lonely shore.    Later in the evening Black Michael joined them long enough to instruct  them to make their preparations for landing on the morrow.  They tried  to persuade him to take them to some more hospitable coast near enough  to civilization so that they might hope to fall into friendly hands.  But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.    "I am the only man aboard who would not rather see ye both safely dead,  and, while I know that's the sensible way to make sure of our own 
