alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched  mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the  human beasts beyond its frontier.    But as Tarzan of the Apes sat one day in the cabin of his father  delving into the mysteries of a new book, the ancient security of his  jungle was broken forever.    At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file,  over the brow of a low hill.    In advance were fifty black warriors armed with slender wooden spears  with ends hard baked over slow fires, and long bows and poisoned  arrows.  On their backs were oval shields, in their noses huge rings,  while from the kinky wool of their heads protruded tufts of gay  feathers.    Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and  on each breast three concentric circles.  Their yellow teeth were filed  to sharp points, and their great protruding lips added still further to  the low and bestial brutishness of their appearance.    Following them were several hundred women and children, the former  bearing upon their heads great burdens of cooking pots, household  utensils and ivory.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in  all respects to the advance guard.    That they more greatly feared an attack from the rear than whatever  unknown enemies lurked in their advance was evidenced by the formation  of the column; and such was the fact, for they were fleeing from the  white man's soldiers who had so harassed them for rubber and ivory that  they had turned upon their conquerors one day and massacred a white  officer and a small detachment of his black troops.    For many days they had gorged themselves on meat, but eventually a  stronger body of troops had come and fallen upon their village by night  to revenge the death of their comrades.    That night the black soldiers of the white man had had meat a-plenty,  and this little remnant of a once powerful tribe had slunk off into the  gloomy jungle toward the unknown, and freedom.    But that which meant freedom and the pursuit of happiness to these 
