seething cauldron with a kick, and disappeared into the foliage above  just as the first of the returning natives entered the gate at the far  end of the village street.  Then he turned to watch the proceeding  below, poised like some wild bird ready to take swift wing at the first  sign of danger.    The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of  Kulonga.  Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird  lamentation.  On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very  one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.    Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing  out in wild, jabbering confusion.  The others hastened to gather about.  There was much excited gesticulating, pointing, and chattering; then  several of the warriors approached and peered within.    Finally an old fellow with many ornaments of metal about his arms and  legs, and a necklace of dried human hands depending upon his chest,  entered the hut.    It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.    For a few moments all was silent.  Then Mbonga emerged, a look of  mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance.  He spoke a few words to the assembled warriors, and in an instant the  men were flying through the little village searching minutely every hut  and corner within the palisades.    Scarcely had the search commenced than the overturned cauldron was  discovered, and with it the theft of the poisoned arrows.  Nothing more  they found, and it was a thoroughly awed and frightened group of  savages which huddled around their king a few moments later.    Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken  place.  The finding of the still warm body of Kulonga--on the very  verge of their fields and within easy earshot of the village--knifed  and stripped at the door of his father's home, was in itself  sufficiently mysterious, but these last awesome discoveries within the  village, within the dead Kulonga's own hut, filled their hearts with  dismay, and conjured in their poor brains only the most frightful of 
