Occasionally one more ferocious than his fellows would attempt this  latter alternative, but none had come yet who could wrest the palm of  victory from the fierce and brutal ape.    Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe.  They seemed to consider  him one of them and yet in some way different.  The older males either  ignored him entirely or else hated him so vindictively that but for his  wondrous agility and speed and the fierce protection of the huge Kala  he would have been dispatched at an early age.    Tublat was his most consistent enemy, but it was through Tublat that,  when he was about thirteen, the persecution of his enemies suddenly  ceased and he was left severely alone, except on the occasions when one  of them ran amuck in the throes of one of those strange, wild fits of  insane rage which attacks the males of many of the fiercer animals of  the jungle.  Then none was safe.    On the day that Tarzan established his right to respect, the tribe was  gathered about a small natural amphitheater which the jungle had left  free from its entangling vines and creepers in a hollow among some low  hills.    The open space was almost circular in shape.  Upon every hand rose the  mighty giants of the untouched forest, with the matted undergrowth  banked so closely between the huge trunks that the only opening into  the little, level arena was through the upper branches of the trees.    Here, safe from interruption, the tribe often gathered.  In the center  of the amphitheater was one of those strange earthen drums which the  anthropoids build for the queer rites the sounds of which men have  heard in the fastnesses of the jungle, but which none has ever  witnessed.    Many travelers have seen the drums of the great apes, and some have  heard the sounds of their beating and the noise of the wild, weird  revelry of these first lords of the jungle, but Tarzan, Lord Greystoke,  is, doubtless, the only human being who ever joined in the fierce, mad,  intoxicating revel of the Dum-Dum.    
