  The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting.  The myriad noises of  the jungle seemed far distant and hushed to a mere echo of blurred  sounds, rising and falling like the surf upon a remote shore.    A feeling of dreamy peacefulness stole over Jane as she sank down upon  the grass where Tarzan had placed her, and as she looked up at his  great figure towering above her, there was added a strange sense of  perfect security.    As she watched him from beneath half-closed lids, Tarzan crossed the  little circular clearing toward the trees upon the further side.  She  noted the graceful majesty of his carriage, the perfect symmetry of his  magnificent figure and the poise of his well-shaped head upon his broad  shoulders.    What a perfect creature!  There could be naught of cruelty or baseness  beneath that godlike exterior.  Never, she thought had such a man  strode the earth since God created the first in his own image.    With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.  Jane  wondered where he had gone.  Had he left her there to her fate in the  lonely jungle?    She glanced nervously about.  Every vine and bush seemed but the  lurking-place of some huge and horrible beast waiting to bury gleaming  fangs into her soft flesh.  Every sound she magnified into the stealthy  creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.    How different now that he had left her!    For a few minutes that seemed hours to the frightened girl, she sat  with tense nerves waiting for the spring of the crouching thing that  was to end her misery of apprehension.    She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her  unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.    She heard a sudden, slight sound behind her.  With a cry she sprang to  her feet and turned to face her end.    There stood Tarzan, his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit.    Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden,  caught her in his arms.  She did not lose consciousness, but she clung 
