trained athletes and 'strong men' as they surpass a day-old babe; and  his courage and ferocity in battle are those of the wild beast."    "He has certainly won a loyal champion, Miss Porter," said Captain  Dufranne, laughing.  "I am sure that there be none of us here but would  willingly face death a hundred times in its most terrifying forms to  deserve the tributes of one even half so loyal--or so beautiful."    "You would not wonder that I defend him," said the girl, "could you  have seen him as I saw him, battling in my behalf with that huge hairy  brute.    "Could you have seen him charge the monster as a bull might charge a  grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have  believed him more than human.    "Could you have seen those mighty muscles knotting under the brown  skin--could you have seen them force back those awful fangs--you too  would have thought him invincible.    "And could you have seen the chivalrous treatment which he accorded a  strange girl of a strange race, you would feel the same absolute  confidence in him that I feel."    "You have won your suit, my fair pleader," cried the captain.  "This  court finds the defendant not guilty, and the cruiser shall wait a few  days longer that he may have an opportunity to come and thank the  divine Portia."    "For the Lord's sake honey," cried Esmeralda.  "You all don't mean to  tell ME that you're going to stay right here in this here land of  carnivable animals when you all got the opportunity to escapade on that  boat?  Don't you tell me THAT, honey."    "Why, Esmeralda!  You should be ashamed of yourself," cried Jane.  "Is  this any way to show your gratitude to the man who saved your life  twice?"    "Well, Miss Jane, that's all jest as you say; but that there forest man  never did save us to stay here.  He done save us so we all could get  AWAY from here.  I expect he be mighty peevish when he find we ain't  got no more sense than to stay right here after he done give us the 
