Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was  bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been  released.    A number of the women scattered to their several huts to fetch pots and  water, while others built a row of fires on which portions of the feast  were to be boiled while the balance would be slowly dried in strips for  future use, as they expected the other warriors to return with many  prisoners.  The festivities were delayed awaiting the return of the  warriors who had remained to engage in the skirmish with the white men,  so that it was quite late when all were in the village, and the dance  of death commenced to circle around the doomed officer.    Half fainting from pain and exhaustion, D'Arnot watched from beneath  half-closed lids what seemed but the vagary of delirium, or some horrid  nightmare from which he must soon awake.    The bestial faces, daubed with color--the huge mouths and flabby  hanging lips--the yellow teeth, sharp filed--the rolling, demon  eyes--the shining naked bodies--the cruel spears.  Surely no such  creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.    The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.  Now a spear sprang forth  and touched his arm.  The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling  blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position.    Another spear and then another touched him.  He closed his eyes and  held his teeth firm set--he would not cry out.    He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an  officer and a gentleman died.      Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of  those distant shots.  With Jane Porter's kisses still warm upon his  lips he was swinging with incredible rapidity through the forest trees  straight toward the village of Mbonga.    He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged  that that would soon be over.  Those who were killed he could not aid,  those who escaped would not need his assistance.  
