darkness until it found his old friend's shoulder.    "Forgive me, Skinny," he said, softly.  "It hasn't been quite twenty  years, and God alone knows how hard I have tried to be 'human' for  Jane's sake, and yours, too, since He took my other Jane away."    Another old hand stole up from Mr. Philander's side to clasp the one  that lay upon his shoulder, and no other message could better have  translated the one heart to the other.    They did not speak for some minutes.  The lion below them paced  nervously back and forth.  The third figure in the tree was hidden by  the dense shadows near the stem.  He, too, was silent--motionless as a  graven image.    "You certainly pulled me up into this tree just in time," said the  professor at last.  "I want to thank you.  You saved my life."    "But I didn't pull you up here, Professor," said Mr. Philander.  "Bless  me!  The excitement of the moment quite caused me to forget that I  myself was drawn up here by some outside agency--there must be someone  or something in this tree with us."    "Eh?" ejaculated Professor Porter.  "Are you quite positive, Mr.  Philander?"    "Most positive, Professor," replied Mr. Philander, "and," he added, "I  think we should thank the party.  He may be sitting right next to you  now, Professor."    "Eh?  What's that?  Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut!" said Professor  Porter, edging cautiously nearer to Mr. Philander.    Just then it occurred to Tarzan of the Apes that Numa had loitered  beneath the tree for a sufficient length of time, so he raised his  young head toward the heavens, and there rang out upon the terrified  ears of the two old men the awful warning challenge of the anthropoid.    The two friends, huddled trembling in their precarious position on the  limb, saw the great lion halt in his restless pacing as the  blood-curdling cry smote his ears, and then slink quickly into the  jungle, to be instantly lost to view.    "Even the lion trembles in fear," whispered Mr. Philander. 
