and then silence.    In the cabin by the beach two thoroughly terrified women clung to each  other as they crouched upon the low bench in the gathering darkness.    The Negress sobbed hysterically, bemoaning the evil day that had  witnessed her departure from her dear Maryland, while the white girl,  dry eyed and outwardly calm, was torn by inward fears and forebodings.  She feared not more for herself than for the three men whom she knew to  be wandering in the abysmal depths of the savage jungle, from which she  now heard issuing the almost incessant shrieks and roars, barkings and  growlings of its terrifying and fearsome denizens as they sought their  prey.    And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side  of the cabin.  She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground  outside.  For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the  forest died to a faint murmur.  Then she distinctly heard the beast  outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched.  Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.    "Hush!" she whispered.  "Hush, Esmeralda," for the woman's sobs and  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just  beyond the thin wall.    A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  The brute tried to  force an entrance; but presently this ceased, and again she heard the  great pads creeping stealthily around the cabin.  Again they  stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now  glued themselves.    "God!" she murmured, for now, silhouetted against the moonlit sky  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the  head of a huge lioness.  The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in  intent ferocity.    "Look, Esmeralda!" she whispered.  "For God's sake, what shall we do?  Look!  Quick!  The window!"    Esmeralda, cowering still closer to her mistress, took one frightened  glance toward the little square of moonlight, just as the lioness  emitted a low, savage snarl.    
