cut off. The thumbs upon his hands and feet are unlike those of the  races of Pal-ul-don. He is more powerful than many men put together and  he attacks with the fearlessness of JA.  We brought him alive, that you  might see him before he is slain."    The chief rose and approached the ape-man, who closed his eyes and  feigned unconsciousness. He felt hairy hands upon him as he was turned  over, none too gently. The gund examined him from head to foot, making  comments, especially upon the shape and size of his thumbs and great  toes.    "With these and with no tail," he said, "it cannot climb."    "No," agreed one of the warriors, "it would surely fall even from the  cliff pegs."    "I have never seen a thing like it," said the chief. "It is neither  Waz-don nor Ho-don. I wonder from whence it came and what it is called."    "The Kor-ul-JA shouted aloud, 'Tarzan-jad-guru!' and we thought that  they might be calling this one," said a warrior. "Shall we kill it now?"    "No," replied the chief, "we will wait until its life returns into its  head that I may question it. Remain here, In-tan, and watch it. When it  can again hear and speak call me."    He turned and departed from the cave, the others, except In-tan,  following him. As they moved past him and out of the chamber Tarzan  caught snatches of their conversation which indicated that the  Kor-ul-JA reinforcements had fallen upon their little party in great  numbers and driven them away. Evidently the swift feet of Id-an had  saved the day for the warriors of Om-at. The ape-man smiled, then he  partially opened an eye and cast it upon In-tan. The warrior stood at  the entrance to the cave looking out--his back was toward his prisoner.  Tarzan tested the bonds that secured his wrists. They seemed none too  stout and they had tied his hands in front of him! Evidence indeed that  the Waz-don took few prisoners--if any.    Cautiously he raised his wrists until he could examine the thongs that  confined them. A grim smile lighted his features. Instantly he was at 
