  Drawing his knife Tarzan moved slowly toward the body of his companion,  expecting that his recent antagonist would grasp the opportunity for  escape. To his surprise, however, the beast, after regaining its club,  advanced at his side.    The great cat, flattened upon its belly, remained motionless except for  twitching tail and snarling lips where it lay perhaps fifty feet beyond  the body of the pithecanthropus. As Tarzan stepped over the body of the  latter he saw the eyelids quiver and open, and in his heart he felt a  strange sense of relief that the creature was not dead and a  realization that without his suspecting it there had arisen within his  savage bosom a bond of attachment for this strange new friend.    Tarzan continued to approach the saber-tooth, nor did the shaggy beast  at his right lag behind. Closer and closer they came until at a  distance of about twenty feet the hybrid charged. Its rush was directed  toward the shaggy manlike ape who halted in his tracks with upraised  bludgeon to meet the assault. Tarzan, on the contrary, leaped forward  and with a celerity second not even to that of the swift-moving cat, he  threw himself headlong upon him as might a Rugby tackler on an American  gridiron. His right arm circled the beast's neck in front of the right  shoulder, his left behind the left foreleg, and so great was the force  of the impact that the two rolled over and over several times upon the  ground, the cat screaming and clawing to liberate itself that it might  turn upon its attacker, the man clinging desperately to his hold.    Seemingly the attack was one of mad, senseless ferocity unguided by  either reason or skill. Nothing, however, could have been farther from  the truth than such an assumption since every muscle in the ape-man's  giant frame obeyed the dictates of the cunning mind that long  experience had trained to meet every exigency of such an encounter. The  long, powerful legs, though seemingly inextricably entangled with the  hind feet of the clawing cat, ever as by a miracle, escaped the raking  talons and yet at just the proper instant in the midst of all the 
