know which of all the holes you see are deep enough for pegs--the  others are made to confuse our enemies and are too shallow to hold a  peg."    At the top of the cliff beside the gnarled tree Tarzan again took up  the trail. Here the scent was fully as strong as upon the pegs and the  ape-man moved rapidly across the ridge in the direction of the  Kor-ul-lul.    Presently he paused and turned toward Om-at. "Here she moved swiftly,  running at top speed, and, Om-at, she was pursued by a lion."    "You can read that in the grass?" asked O-dan as the others gathered  about the ape-man.    Tarzan nodded. "I do not think the lion got her," he added; "but that  we shall determine quickly. No, he did not get her--look!" and he  pointed toward the southwest, down the ridge.    Following the direction indicated by his finger, the others presently  detected a movement in some bushes a couple of hundred yards away.    "What is it?" asked Om-at. "It is she?" and he started toward the spot.    "Wait," advised Tarzan. "It is the lion which pursued her."    "You can see him?" asked Ta-den.    "No, I can smell him."    The others looked their astonishment and incredulity; but of the fact  that it was indeed a lion they were not left long in doubt. Presently  the bushes parted and the creature stepped out in full view, facing  them. It was a magnificent beast, large and beautifully maned, with the  brilliant leopard spots of its kind well marked and symmetrical. For a  moment it eyed them and then, still chafing at the loss of its prey  earlier in the morning, it charged.    The Pal-ul-donians unslung their clubs and stood waiting the onrushing  beast. Tarzan of the Apes drew his hunting knife and crouched in the  path of the fanged fury. It was almost upon him when it swerved to the  right and leaped for Om-at only to be sent to earth with a staggering  blow upon the head. Almost instantly it was up and though the men  rushed fearlessly in, it managed to sweep aside their weapons with its 
