then, would but have been to invite disaster and so she did not call.  Instead, afraid though she was, she descended into the gorge for the  purpose of overhauling Tarzan and warning him in whispers of his  danger. It was a brave act, since it was performed in the face of  countless ages of inherited fear of the creatures that she might be  called upon to face. Men have been decorated for less.    Pan-at-lee, descended from a long line of hunters, assumed that Tarzan  would move up wind and in this direction she sought his tracks, which  she soon found well marked, since he had made no effort to conceal  them. She moved rapidly until she reached the point at which Tarzan had  taken to the trees. Of course she knew what had happened; since her own  people were semi-arboreal; but she could not track him through the  trees, having no such well-developed sense of scent as he.    She could but hope that he had continued on up wind and in this  direction she moved, her heart pounding in terror against her ribs, her  eyes glancing first in one direction and then another.  She had reached  the edge of a clearing when two things happened--she caught sight of  Tarzan bending over a dead deer and at the same instant a deafening  roar sounded almost beside her.  It terrified her beyond description,  but it brought no paralysis of fear. Instead it galvanized her into  instant action with the result that Pan-at-lee swarmed up the nearest  tree to the very loftiest branch that would sustain her weight. Then  she looked down.    The thing that Tarzan saw charging him when the warning bellow  attracted his surprised eyes loomed terrifically monstrous before  him--monstrous and awe-inspiring; but it did not terrify Tarzan, it  only angered him, for he saw that it was beyond even his powers to  combat and that meant that it might cause him to lose his kill, and  Tarzan was hungry. There was but a single alternative to remaining for  annihilation and that was flight--swift and immediate. And Tarzan fled,  but he carried the carcass of Bara, the deer, with him. He had not more 
