a moment all eyes were centered upon Tarzan and then gradually they  drifted to Ko-tan, for from his attitude would they receive the cue  that would determine theirs. But Ko-tan was evidently in the same  quandary as they--the very attitude of his body indicated it--it was  one of indecision and of doubt.    The ape-man stood erect, his arms folded upon his broad breast, an  expression of haughty disdain upon his handsome face; but to Dak-lot  there seemed to be indications also of growing anger. The situation was  becoming strained. Dak-lot fidgeted, casting apprehensive glances at  Tarzan and appealing ones at Ko-tan. The silence of the tomb wrapped  the great chamber of the throneroom of Pal-ul-don.    At last Ko-tan spoke. "Who says that he is Dor-ul-Otho?" he asked,  casting a terrible look at Dak-lot.    "He does!" almost shouted that terrified noble.    "And so it must be true?" queried Ko-tan.    Could it be that there was a trace of irony in the chief's tone? Otho  forbid! Dak-lot cast a side glance at Tarzan--a glance that he intended  should carry the assurance of his own faith; but that succeeded only in  impressing the ape-man with the other's pitiable terror.    "O Ko-tan!" pleaded Dak-lot, "your own eyes must convince you that  indeed he is the son of Otho. Behold his godlike figure, his hands, and  his feet, that are not as ours, and that he is entirely tailless as is  his mighty father."    Ko-tan appeared to be perceiving these facts for the first time and  there was an indication that his skepticism was faltering. At that  moment a young warrior who had pushed his way forward from the opposite  side of the pyramid to where he could obtain a good look at Tarzan  raised his voice.    "Ko-tan," he cried, "it must be even as Dak-lot says, for I am sure now  that I have seen Dor-ul-Otho before. Yesterday as we were returning  with the Kor-ul-lul prisoners we beheld him seated upon the back of a  great GRYF. We hid in the woods before he came too near, but I saw  enough to make sure that he who rode upon the great beast was none 
