  A brief silence followed the assassin's cowardly act. White with  terror, now, Bu-lot fell slowly back toward the doorway at his rear,  when suddenly angry warriors leaped with drawn knives to prevent his  escape and to avenge their king. But Mo-sar now took his stand beside  his son.    "Ko-tan is dead!" he cried. "Mo-sar is king! Let the loyal warriors of  Pal-ul-don protect their ruler!"    Mo-sar commanded a goodly following and these quickly surrounded him  and Bu-lot, but there were many knives against them and now Ja-don  pressed forward through those who confronted the pretender.    "Take them both!" he shouted. "The warriors of Pal-ul-don will choose  their own king after the assassin of Ko-tan has paid the penalty of his  treachery."    Directed now by a leader whom they both respected and admired those who  had been loyal to Ko-tan rushed forward upon the faction that had  surrounded Mo-sar. Fierce and terrible was the fighting, devoid,  apparently, of all else than the ferocious lust to kill and while it  was at its height Mo-sar and Bu-lot slipped unnoticed from the banquet  hall.    To that part of the palace assigned to them during their visit to A-lur  they hastened. Here were their servants and the lesser warriors of  their party who had not been bidden to the feast of Ko-tan. These were  directed quickly to gather together their belongings for immediate  departure. When all was ready, and it did not take long, since the  warriors of Pal-ul-don require but little impedimenta on the march,  they moved toward the palace gate.    Suddenly Mo-sar approached his son. "The princess," he whispered. "We  must not leave the city without her--she is half the battle for the  throne."    Bu-lot, now entirely sober, demurred. He had had enough of fighting and  of risk. "Let us get out of A-lur quickly," he urged, "or we shall have  the whole city upon us. She would not come without a struggle and that  would delay us too long."    "There is plenty of time," insisted Mo-sar. "They are still fighting in  the pal-e-don-so. It will be long before they miss us and, with Ko-tan 
