ran like wildfire through the palace and out into the city and beyond  that to the lesser villages all the way from A-lur to Tu-lur.    The real god had come--Jad-ben-Otho himself, and he had espoused the  cause of Lu-don, the high priest. Mo-sar lost no time in placing  himself at the disposal of Lu-don, nor did he mention aught about his  claims to the throne. It was Mo-sar's opinion that he might consider  himself fortunate were he allowed to remain in peaceful occupation of  his chieftainship at Tu-lur, nor was Mo-sar wrong in his deductions.    But Lu-don could still use him and so he let him live and sent word to  him to come to A-lur with all his warriors, for it was rumored that  Ja-don was raising a great army in the north and might soon march upon  the City of Light.    Obergatz thoroughly enjoyed being a god. Plenty of food and peace of  mind and rest partially brought back to him the reason that had been so  rapidly slipping from him; but in one respect he was madder than ever,  since now no power on earth would ever be able to convince him that he  was not a god. Slaves were put at his disposal and these he ordered  about in godly fashion. The same portion of his naturally cruel mind  met upon common ground the mind of Lu-don, so that the two seemed  always in accord. The high priest saw in the stranger a mighty force  wherewith to hold forever his power over all Pal-ul-don and thus the  future of Obergatz was assured so long as he cared to play god to  Lu-don's high priest.    A throne was erected in the main temple court before the eastern altar  where Jad-ben-Otho might sit in person and behold the sacrifices that  were offered up to him there each day at sunset.  So much did the  cruel, half-crazed mind enjoy these spectacles that at times he even  insisted upon wielding the sacrificial knife himself and upon such  occasions the priests and the people fell upon their faces in awe of  the dread deity.    If Obergatz taught them not to love their god more he taught them to 
