of Lady Greystoke. The bare feet of the intruders gave forth no sound  as they crossed the stone floor toward her. A ray of moonlight entering  through a window near her couch shone full upon her, revealing the  beautiful contours of an arm and shoulder in cameo-distinctness against  the dark furry pelt beneath which she slept, and the perfect profile  that was turned toward the skulking three.    But neither the beauty nor the helplessness of the sleeper aroused such  sentiments of passion or pity as might stir in the breasts of normal  men. To the three priests she was but a lump of clay, nor could they  conceive aught of that passion which had aroused men to intrigue and to  murder for possession of this beautiful American girl, and which even  now was influencing the destiny of undiscovered Pal-ul-don.    Upon the floor of the chamber were numerous pelts and as the leader of  the trio came close to the sleeping woman he stooped and gathered up  one of the smaller of these. Standing close to her head he held the rug  outspread above her face. "Now," he whispered and simultaneously he  threw the rug over the woman's head and his two fellows leaped upon  her, seizing her arms and pinioning her body while their leader stifled  her cries with the furry pelt. Quickly and silently they bound her  wrists and gagged her and during the brief time that their work  required there was no sound that might have been heard by occupants of  the adjoining apartments.    Jerking her roughly to her feet they forced her toward a window but she  refused to walk, throwing herself instead upon the floor. They were  very angry and would have resorted to cruelties to compel her obedience  but dared not, since the wrath of Lu-don might fall heavily upon  whoever mutilated his fair prize.    And so they were forced to lift and carry her bodily. Nor was the task  any sinecure since the captive kicked and struggled as best she might,  making their labor as arduous as possible. But finally they succeeded  in getting her through the window and into the garden beyond where one  
