this she inserted the point of her spear. The thing must have heard her  move within for suddenly it abandoned its efforts for stealth and tore  angrily at the obstacle. At the same moment Jane thrust her spear  forward with all her strength. She felt it enter flesh. There was a  scream and a curse from without, followed by the crashing of a body  through limbs and foliage. Her spear was almost dragged from her grasp,  but she held to it until it broke free from the thing it had pierced.    It was Obergatz; the curse had told her that. From below came no  further sound. Had she, then, killed him? She prayed so--with all her  heart she prayed it. To be freed from the menace of this loathsome  creature were relief indeed. During all the balance of the night she  lay there awake, listening. Below her, she imagined, she could see the  dead man with his hideous face bathed in the cold light of the  moon--lying there upon his back staring up at her.    She prayed that JA might come and drag it away, but all during the  remainder of the night she heard never another sound above the drowsy  hum of the jungle. She was glad that he was dead, but she dreaded the  gruesome ordeal that awaited her on the morrow, for she must bury the  thing that had been Erich Obergatz and live on there above the shallow  grave of the man she had slain.    She reproached herself for her weakness, repeating over and over that  she had killed in self-defense, that her act was justified; but she was  still a woman of today, and strong upon her were the iron mandates of  the social order from which she had sprung, its interdictions and its  superstitions.    At last came the tardy dawn. Slowly the sun topped the distant  mountains beyond Jad-in-lul. And yet she hesitated to loosen the  fastenings of her door and look out upon the thing below. But it must  be done. She steeled herself and untied the rawhide thong that secured  the barrier. She looked down and only the grass and the flowers looked  up at her. She came from her shelter and examined the ground upon the 
