them clattering to the floor of the apartment within.    Instantly Tarzan dove headforemost through the aperture carrying the  hangings of antelope hide with him to the floor below.  Leaping to his  feet he tore the entangling pelt from about his head only to find  himself in utter darkness and in silence. He called aloud a name that  had not passed his lips for many weary months. "Jane, Jane," he cried,  "where are you?" But there was only silence in reply.    Again and again he called, groping with outstretched hands through the  Stygian blackness of the room, his nostrils assailed and his brain  tantalized by the delicate effluvia that had first assured him that his  mate had been within this very room. And he had heard her dear voice  combatting the base demands of the vile priest. Ah, if he had but acted  with greater caution! If he had but continued to move with quiet and  stealth he might even at this moment be holding her in his arms while  the body of Lu-don, beneath his foot, spoke eloquently of vengeance  achieved. But there was no time now for idle self-reproaches.    He stumbled blindly forward, groping for he knew not what till suddenly  the floor beneath him tilted and he shot downward into a darkness even  more utter than that above. He felt his body strike a smooth surface  and he realized that he was hurtling downward as through a polished  chute while from above there came the mocking tones of a taunting laugh  and the voice of Lu-don screamed after him: "Return to thy father, O  Dor-ul-Otho!"    The ape-man came to a sudden and painful stop upon a rocky floor.  Directly before him was an oval window crossed by many bars, and beyond  he saw the moonlight playing on the waters of the blue lake below.  Simultaneously he was conscious of a familiar odor in the air of the  chamber, which a quick glance revealed in the semidarkness as of  considerable proportion.    It was the faint, but unmistakable odor of the GRYF, and now Tarzan  stood silently listening. At first he detected no sounds other than  those of the city that came to him through the window overlooking the 
