his arms outstretched in the attitude of one who bares his breast to  the dagger of an executioner. The warriors and the priests and the  slaves gathered in the sacred court awaited the consuming vengeance of  their god.    It was Tarzan who broke the silence. "Your god ignores you Lu-don," he  taunted, with a sneer that he meant to still further anger the high  priest, "he ignores you and I can prove it before the eyes of your  priests and your people."    "Prove it, blasphemer! How can you prove it?"    "You have called me a blasphemer," replied Tarzan, "you have proved to  your own satisfaction that I am an impostor, that I, an ordinary  mortal, have posed as the son of god. Demand then that Jad-ben-Otho  uphold his godship and the dignity of his priesthood by directing his  consuming fires through my own bosom."    Again there ensued a brief silence while the onlookers waited for  Lu-don to thus consummate the destruction of this presumptuous impostor.    "You dare not," taunted Tarzan, "for you know that I would be struck  dead no quicker than were you."    "You lie," cried Lu-don, "and I would do it had I not but just received  a message from Jad-ben-Otho directing that your fate be different."    A chorus of admiring and reverential "Ahs" arose from the priesthood.  Ko-tan and his warriors were in a state of mental confusion. Secretly  they hated and feared Lu-don, but so ingrained was their sense of  reverence for the office of the high priest that none dared raise a  voice against him.    None? Well, there was Ja-don, fearless old Lion-man of the north. "The  proposition was a fair one," he cried. "Invoke the lightnings of  Jad-ben-Otho upon this man if you would ever convince us of his guilt."    "Enough of this," snapped Lu-don. "Since when was Ja-don created high  priest? Seize the prisoner," he cried to the priests and warriors, "and  on the morrow he shall die in the manner that Jad-ben-Otho has willed."    There was no immediate movement on the part of any of the warriors to  obey the high priest's command, but the lesser priests on the other 
