  Tarzan smiled. "I have been struck thus before, Jane," he said, "and  always has the striker died."    "You still have hope?" she asked.    "I am still alive," he said as though that were sufficient answer. She  was a woman and she did not have the courage of this man who knew no  fear. In her heart of hearts she knew that he would die upon the altar  at high noon for he had told her, after he had been brought to the  inner court, of the sentence of death that Obergatz had pronounced upon  him, and she knew too that Tarzan knew that he would die, but that he  was too courageous to admit it even to himself.    As she looked upon him standing there so straight and wonderful and  brave among his savage captors her heart cried out against the cruelty  of the fate that had overtaken him. It seemed a gross and hideous wrong  that that wonderful creature, now so quick with exuberant life and  strength and purpose should be presently naught but a bleeding lump of  clay--and all so uselessly and wantonly. Gladly would she have offered  her life for his but she knew that it was a waste of words since their  captors would work upon them whatever it was their will to do--for him,  death; for her--she shuddered at the thought.    And now came Lu-don and the naked Obergatz, and the high priest led the  German to his place behind the altar, himself standing upon the other's  left. Lu-don whispered a word to Obergatz, at the same time nodding in  the direction of Ja-don. The Hun cast a scowling look upon the old  warrior.    "And after the false god," he cried, "the false prophet," and he  pointed an accusing finger at Ja-don. Then his eyes wandered to the  form of Jane Clayton.    "And the woman, too?" asked Lu-don.    "The case of the woman I will attend to later," replied Obergatz. "I  will talk with her tonight after she has had a chance to meditate upon  the consequences of arousing the wrath of Jad-ben-Otho."    He cast his eyes upward at the sun. "The time approaches," he said to 
