A month later little Jeanne Jacot, the seven-year-old daughter of  Captain Armand Jacot, mysteriously disappeared.  Neither the wealth of  her father and mother, or all the powerful resources of the great  republic were able to wrest the secret of her whereabouts from the  inscrutable desert that had swallowed her and her abductor.    A reward of such enormous proportions was offered that many adventurers  were attracted to the hunt.  This was no case for the modern detective  of civilization, yet several of these threw themselves into the  search--the bones of some are already bleaching beneath the African sun  upon the silent sands of the Sahara.    Two Swedes, Carl Jenssen and Sven Malbihn, after three years of  following false leads at last gave up the search far to the south of  the Sahara to turn their attention to the more profitable business of  ivory poaching.  In a great district they were already known for their  relentless cruelty and their greed for ivory.  The natives feared and  hated them.  The European governments in whose possessions they worked  had long sought them; but, working their way slowly out of the north  they had learned many things in the no-man's-land south of the Sahara  which gave them immunity from capture through easy avenues of escape  that were unknown to those who pursued them.  Their raids were sudden  and swift.  They seized ivory and retreated into the trackless wastes  of the north before the guardians of the territory they raped could be  made aware of their presence.  Relentlessly they slaughtered elephants  themselves as well as stealing ivory from the natives.  Their following  consisted of a hundred or more renegade Arabs and Negro slaves--a  fierce, relentless band of cut-throats.  Remember them--Carl Jenssen  and Sven Malbihn, yellow-bearded, Swedish giants--for you will meet  them later.      In the heart of the jungle, hidden away upon the banks of a small  unexplored tributary of a large river that empties into the Atlantic  not so far from the equator, lay a small, heavily palisaded village.  Twenty palm-thatched, beehive huts sheltered its black population,  while a half-dozen goat skin tents in the center of the clearing housed 
