opposite side.  In trooped the motley organization--black slaves and  dark hued Arabs of the northern deserts; cursing camel drivers urging  on their vicious charges; overburdened donkeys, waving sadly pendulous  ears while they endured with stoic patience the brutalities of their  masters; goats, sheep and horses.  Into the village they all trooped  behind a tall, sour, old man, who rode without greetings to those who  shrunk from his path directly to a large goatskin tent in the center of  the village.  Here he spoke to a wrinkled hag.    Korak, from his vantage spot, could see it all.  He saw the old man  asking questions of the black woman, and then he saw the latter point  toward a secluded corner of the village which was hidden from the main  street by the tents of the Arabs and the huts of the natives in the  direction of the tree beneath which the little girl played.  This was  doubtless her father, thought Korak.  He had been away and his first  thought upon returning was of his little daughter.  How glad she would  be to see him!  How she would run and throw herself into his arms, to  be crushed to his breast and covered with his kisses.  Korak sighed.  He thought of his own father and mother far away in London.    He returned to his place in the tree above the girl.  If he couldn't  have happiness of this sort himself he wanted to enjoy the happiness of  others.  Possibly if he made himself known to the old man he might be  permitted to come to the village occasionally as a friend.  It would be  worth trying.  He would wait until the old Arab had greeted his  daughter, then he would make his presence known with signs of peace.    The Arab was striding softly toward the girl.  In a moment he would be  beside her, and then how surprised and delighted she would be!  Korak's  eyes sparkled in anticipation--and now the old man stood behind the  little girl.  His stern old face was still unrelaxed.  The child was  yet unconscious of his presence.  She prattled on to the unresponsive 
