of baboons could mean naught else than that one or more of their number  had fallen a victim to the allurements of the bait.    The extreme caution of the two men was prompted by former experiences  with the intelligent and doglike creatures with which they had to deal.  More than one trapper has lost his life in battle with enraged baboons  who will hesitate to attack nothing upon one occasion, while upon  another a single gun shot will disperse hundreds of them.    Heretofore the Swedes had always watched near-by their trap, for as a  rule only the stronger bulls are thus caught, since in their greediness  they prevent the weaker from approaching the covered bait, and when  once within the ordinary rude trap woven on the spot of interlaced  branches they are able, with the aid of their friends upon the outside,  to demolish their prison and escape.  But in this instance the trappers  had utilized a special steel cage which could withstand all the  strength and cunning of a baboon.  It was only necessary, therefore, to  drive away the herd which they knew were surrounding the prison and  wait for their boys who were even now following them to the trap.    As they came within sight of the spot they found conditions precisely  as they had expected.  A large male was battering frantically against  the steel wires of the cage that held him captive.  Upon the outside  several hundred other baboons were tearing and tugging in his aid, and  all were roaring and jabbering and barking at the top of their lungs.    But what neither the Swedes nor the baboons saw was the half-naked  figure of a youth hidden in the foliage of a nearby tree.  He had come  upon the scene at almost the same instant as Jenssen and Malbihn, and  was watching the activities of the baboons with every mark of interest.    Korak's relations with the baboons had never been over friendly.  A  species of armed toleration had marked their occasional meetings.  The  baboons and Akut had walked stiff legged and growling past one another,  while Korak had maintained a bared fang neutrality.  So now he was not 
