silently toward her was a huge bull ape that she never before had seen.  Behind him was another like him.    With the agility of a squirrel Meriem was upon her feet and at the same  instant the great bull lunged for her.  Leaping from limb to limb the  girl fled through the jungle while close behind her came the two great  apes.  Above them raced a bevy of screaming, chattering monkeys,  hurling taunts and insults at the Mangani, and encouragement and advice  to the girl.    From tree to tree swung Meriem working ever upward toward the smaller  branches which would not bear the weight of her pursuers.  Faster and  faster came the bull apes after her.  The clutching fingers of the  foremost were almost upon her again and again, but she eluded them by  sudden bursts of speed or reckless chances as she threw herself across  dizzy spaces.    Slowly she was gaining her way to the greater heights where safety lay,  when, after a particularly daring leap, the swaying branch she grasped  bent low beneath her weight, nor whipped upward again as it should have  done.  Even before the rending sound which followed Meriem knew that  she had misjudged the strength of the limb.  It gave slowly at first.  Then there was a ripping as it parted from the trunk.  Releasing her  hold Meriem dropped among the foliage beneath, clutching for a new  support.  She found it a dozen feet below the broken limb.  She had  fallen thus many times before, so that she had no particular terror of  a fall--it was the delay which appalled her most, and rightly, for  scarce had she scrambled to a place of safety than the body of the huge  ape dropped at her side and a great, hairy arm went about her waist.    Almost at once the other ape reached his companion's side.  He made a  lunge at Meriem; but her captor swung her to one side, bared his  fighting fangs and growled ominously.  Meriem struggled to escape.  She  struck at the hairy breast and bearded cheek.  She fastened her strong,  white teeth in one shaggy forearm.  The ape cuffed her viciously across 
