them away from this awful country.  Once on board the Marjorie W. the  stranger told his rescuers a pitiful tale of privation, hardships, and  torture, extending over a period of ten years.  How he happened to have  come to Africa he did not tell them, leaving them to assume he had  forgotten the incidents of his life prior to the frightful ordeals that  had wrecked him mentally and physically.  He did not even tell them his  true name, and so they knew him only as Michael Sabrov, nor was there  any resemblance between this sorry wreck and the virile, though  unprincipled, Alexis Paulvitch of old.    It had been ten years since the Russian had escaped the fate of his  friend, the arch-fiend Rokoff, and not once, but many times during  those ten years had Paulvitch cursed the fate that had given to  Nicholas Rokoff death and immunity from suffering while it had meted to  him the hideous terrors of an existence infinitely worse than the death  that persistently refused to claim him.    Paulvitch had taken to the jungle when he had seen the beasts of Tarzan  and their savage lord swarm the deck of the Kincaid, and in his terror  lest Tarzan pursue and capture him he had stumbled on deep into the  jungle, only to fall at last into the hands of one of the savage  cannibal tribes that had felt the weight of Rokoff's evil temper and  cruel brutality.  Some strange whim of the chief of this tribe saved  Paulvitch from death only to plunge him into a life of misery and  torture.  For ten years he had been the butt of the village, beaten and  stoned by the women and children, cut and slashed and disfigured by the  warriors; a victim of often recurring fevers of the most malignant  variety.  Yet he did not die.  Smallpox laid its hideous clutches upon  him; leaving him unspeakably branded with its repulsive marks.  Between  it and the attentions of the tribe the countenance of Alexis Paulvitch  was so altered that his own mother could not have recognized in the  pitiful mask he called his face a single familiar feature.  A few 
