Then he stood waiting, for there was but one canoe and two men--little  danger to him and his followers in that.  Malbihn was puzzled.  Who was  this white man?  He did not recognize him though Baynes' canoe was now  in mid stream and the features of both its occupants plainly  discernible to those on shore.  One of Malbihn's blacks it was who  first recognized his fellow black in the person of Baynes' companion.  Then Malbihn guessed who the white man must be, though he could scarce  believe his own reasoning.  It seemed beyond the pale of wildest  conjecture to suppose that the Hon.  Morison Baynes had followed him  through the jungle with but a single companion--and yet it was true.  Beneath the dirt and dishevelment he recognized him at last, and in the  necessity of admitting that it was he, Malbihn was forced to recognize  the incentive that had driven Baynes, the weakling and coward, through  the savage jungle upon his trail.    The man had come to demand an accounting and to avenge.  It seemed  incredible, and yet there could be no other explanation.  Malbihn  shrugged.  Well, others had sought Malbihn for similar reasons in the  course of a long and checkered career.  He fingered his rifle, and  waited.    Now the canoe was within easy speaking distance of the shore.    "What do you want?" yelled Malbihn, raising his weapon threateningly.    The Hon. Morison Baynes leaped to his feet.    "You, damn you!" he shouted, whipping out his revolver and firing  almost simultaneously with the Swede.    As the two reports rang out Malbihn dropped his rifle, clutched  frantically at his breast, staggered, fell first to his knees and then  lunged upon his face.  Baynes stiffened.  His head flew back  spasmodically.  For an instant he stood thus, and then crumpled very  gently into the bottom of the boat.    The black paddler was at a loss as to what to do.  If Malbihn really  were dead he could continue on to join his fellows without fear; but  should the Swede only be wounded he would be safer upon the far shore. 
