me--until I came to Bwana and My Dear I do not recall that any other  than Korak was ever kind to me."  There was a wistful note in the  girl's voice now and she had forgotten that she was bantering the Hon.  Morison.  She was thinking of Korak.  She had not thought of him a  great deal of late.    For a time both were silently absorbed in their own reflections as they  rode on toward the bungalow of their host.  The girl was thinking of a  god-like figure, a leopard skin half concealing his smooth, brown hide  as he leaped nimbly through the trees to lay an offering of food before  her on his return from a successful hunt.  Behind him, shaggy and  powerful, swung a huge anthropoid ape, while she, Meriem, laughing and  shouting her welcome, swung upon a swaying limb before the entrance to  her sylvan bower.  It was a pretty picture as she recalled it.  The  other side seldom obtruded itself upon her memory--the long, black  nights--the chill, terrible jungle nights--the cold and damp and  discomfort of the rainy season--the hideous mouthings of the savage  carnivora as they prowled through the Stygian darkness beneath--the  constant menace of Sheeta, the panther, and Histah, the snake--the  stinging insects--the loathesome vermin.  For, in truth, all these had  been outweighed by the happiness of the sunny days, the freedom of it  all, and, most, the companionship of Korak.    The man's thoughts were rather jumbled.  He had suddenly realized that  he had come mighty near falling in love with this girl of whom he had  known nothing up to the previous moment when she had voluntarily  revealed a portion of her past to him.  The more he thought upon the  matter the more evident it became to him that he had given her his  love--that he had been upon the verge of offering her his honorable  name.  He trembled a little at the narrowness of his escape.  Yet, he  still loved her.  There was no objection to that according to the  ethics of the Hon. Morison Baynes and his kind.  She was a meaner clay 
