country--it would give him far more time to make his escape toward the  West Coast while the Big Bwana was chasing the northern contingent.  Well, he would utilize the man's plans to his own end.  He, too, must  keep out of the clutches of his host.    "You may take the men north as fast as possible," he said to the  head-man.  "I shall return and attempt to lead the Big Bwana to the  west."    The Negro assented with a grunt.  He had no desire to follow this  strange white man who was afraid at night; he had less to remain at the  tender mercies of the Big Bwana's lusty warriors, between whom and his  people there was long-standing blood feud; and he was more than  delighted, into the bargain, for a legitimate excuse for deserting his  much hated Swede master.  He knew a way to the north and his own  country that the white men did not know--a short cut across an arid  plateau where lay water holes of which the white hunters and explorers  that had passed from time to time the fringe of the dry country had  never dreamed.  He might even elude the Big Bwana should he follow  them, and with this thought uppermost in his mind he gathered the  remnants of Malbihn's safari into a semblance of order and moved off  toward the north.  And toward the southwest the black boy led the Hon.  Morison Baynes into the jungles.    Korak had waited about the camp, watching the Hon. Morison until the  safari had started north.  Then, assured that the young Englishman was  going in the wrong direction to meet Meriem he had abandoned him and  returned slowly to the point where he had seen the girl, for whom his  heart yearned, in the arms of another.    So great had been his happiness at seeing Meriem alive that, for the  instant, no thought of jealousy had entered his mind.  Later these  thoughts had come--dark, bloody thoughts that would have made the flesh  of the Hon. Morison creep could he have guessed that they were  revolving in the brain of a savage creature creeping stealthily among 
