instruction with lessons in sewing and deportment, nor once did she let  Meriem guess that it was not all play.  Nor was this difficult, since  the girl was avid to learn.  Then there were pretty dresses to be made  to take the place of the single leopard skin and in this she found the  child as responsive and enthusiastic as any civilized miss of her  acquaintance.    A month passed before the head man returned--a month that had  transformed the savage, half-naked little tarmangani into a daintily  frocked girl of at least outward civilization.  Meriem had progressed  rapidly with the intricacies of the English language, for Bwana and My  Dear had persistently refused to speak Arabic from the time they had  decided that Meriem must learn English, which had been a day or two  after her introduction into their home.    The report of the head man plunged Meriem into a period of despondency,  for he had found the village of Kovudoo deserted nor, search as he  would, could he discover a single native anywhere in the vicinity.  For  some time he had camped near the village, spending the days in a  systematic search of the environs for traces of Meriem's Korak; but in  this quest, too, had he failed.  He had seen neither apes nor ape-man.  Meriem at first insisted upon setting forth herself in search of Korak,  but Bwana prevailed upon her to wait.  He would go himself, he assured  her, as soon as he could find the time, and at last Meriem consented to  abide by his wishes; but it was months before she ceased to mourn  almost hourly for her Korak.    My Dear grieved with the grieving girl and did her best to comfort and  cheer her.  She told her that if Korak lived he would find her; but all  the time she believed that Korak had never existed beyond the child's  dreams.  She planned amusements to distract Meriem's attention from her  sorrow, and she instituted a well-designed campaign to impress upon the  child the desirability of civilized life and customs.  Nor was this  difficult, as she was soon to learn, for it rapidly became evident that 
