   After their first terror had subsided subsequent to the shock of the  earthquake, Basuli and his warriors hastened back into the passageway  in search of Tarzan and two of their own number who were also missing.    They found the way blocked by jammed and distorted rock.  For two days  they labored to tear a way through to their imprisoned friends; but  when, after Herculean efforts, they had unearthed but a few yards of  the choked passage, and discovered the mangled remains of one of their  fellows they were forced to the conclusion that Tarzan and the second  Waziri also lay dead beneath the rock mass farther in, beyond human  aid, and no longer susceptible of it.    Again and again as they labored they called aloud the names of their  master and their comrade; but no answering call rewarded their  listening ears.  At last they gave up the search.  Tearfully they cast  a last look at the shattered tomb of their master, shouldered the heavy  burden of gold that would at least furnish comfort, if not happiness,  to their bereaved and beloved mistress, and made their mournful way  back across the desolate valley of Opar, and downward through the  forests beyond toward the distant bungalow.    And as they marched what sorry fate was already drawing down upon that  peaceful, happy home!    From the north came Achmet Zek, riding to the summons of his  lieutenant's letter.  With him came his horde of renegade Arabs,  outlawed marauders, these, and equally degraded blacks, garnered from  the more debased and ignorant tribes of savage cannibals through whose  countries the raider passed to and fro with perfect impunity.    Mugambi, the ebon Hercules, who had shared the dangers and vicissitudes  of his beloved Bwana, from Jungle Island, almost to the headwaters of  the Ugambi, was the first to note the bold approach of the sinister  caravan.    He it was whom Tarzan had left in charge of the warriors who remained  to guard Lady Greystoke, nor could a braver or more loyal guardian have  been found in any clime or upon any soil.  A giant in stature, a 
