of himself.  There was a tantalizing suggestion always present in his  mind that something was eluding him--that he should know many things  which he did not know.    His earnest cogitation was rudely interrupted by a thunderous roar from  the opening above him.  Following the roar came the cries and screams  of men and women.  Tarzan grasped his spear more firmly and ascended  the steps.  A strange sight met his eyes as he emerged from the  semi-darkness of the cellar to the brilliant light of the temple.    The creatures he saw before him he recognized for what they were--men  and women, and a huge lion.  The men and women were scuttling for the  safety of the exits.  The lion stood upon the body of one who had been  less fortunate than the others.  He was in the center of the temple.  Directly before Tarzan, a woman stood beside a block of stone.  Upon  the top of the stone lay stretched a man, and as the ape-man watched  the scene, he saw the lion glare terribly at the two who remained  within the temple.  Another thunderous roar broke from the savage  throat, the woman screamed and swooned across the body of the man  stretched prostrate upon the stone altar before her.    The lion advanced a few steps and crouched.  The tip of his sinuous  tail twitched nervously.  He was upon the point of charging when his  eyes were attracted toward the ape-man.    Werper, helpless upon the altar, saw the great carnivore preparing to  leap upon him.  He saw the sudden change in the beast's expression as  his eyes wandered to something beyond the altar and out of the  Belgian's view.  He saw the formidable creature rise to a standing  position.  A figure darted past Werper.  He saw a mighty arm upraised,  and a stout spear shoot forward toward the lion, to bury itself in the  broad chest.    He saw the lion snapping and tearing at the weapon's shaft, and he saw,  wonder of wonders, the naked giant who had hurled the missile charging  upon the great beast, only a long knife ready to meet those ferocious 
