 Attracted by the shrill screams of the mare, a pair of hyenas slunk  presently into view.  They trotted to a point a few yards from the  gorging ape-man, and halted.  Tarzan looked up, bared his fighting  fangs and growled.  The hyenas returned the compliment, and withdrew a  couple of paces.  They made no move to attack; but continued to sit at  a respectful distance until Tarzan had concluded his meal.  After the  ape-man had cut a few strips from the carcass to carry with him, he  walked slowly off in the direction of the river to quench his thirst.  His way lay directly toward the hyenas, nor did he alter his course  because of them.    With all the lordly majesty of Numa, the lion, he strode straight  toward the growling beasts.  For a moment they held their ground,  bristling and defiant; but only for a moment, and then slunk away to  one side while the indifferent ape-man passed them on his lordly way.  A moment later they were tearing at the remains of the zebra.    Back to the reeds went Tarzan, and through them toward the river.  A  herd of buffalo, startled by his approach, rose ready to charge or to  fly.  A great bull pawed the ground and bellowed as his bloodshot eyes  discovered the intruder; but the ape-man passed across their front as  though ignorant of their existence.  The bull's bellowing lessened to a  low rumbling, he turned and scraped a horde of flies from his side with  his muzzle, cast a final glance at the ape-man and resumed his feeding.  His numerous family either followed his example or stood gazing after  Tarzan in mild-eyed curiosity, until the opposite reeds swallowed him  from view.    At the river, Tarzan drank his fill and bathed.  During the heat of the  day he lay up under the shade of a tree near the ruins of his burned  barns.  His eyes wandered out across the plain toward the forest, and a  longing for the pleasures of its mysterious depths possessed his  thoughts for a considerable time.  With the next sun he would cross the 
