   Werper called his head man to him, after writing a long letter to  Achmet Zek.  This letter he handed to the head man.    "Send a runner at once to Achmet Zek with this," he instructed the head  man.  "Remain here in camp awaiting further instructions from him or  from me.  If any come from the bungalow of the Englishman, tell them  that I am very ill within my tent and can see no one.  Now, give me six  porters and six askaris--the strongest and bravest of the safari--and I  will march after the Englishman and discover where his gold is hidden."    And so it was that as Tarzan, stripped to the loin cloth and armed  after the primitive fashion he best loved, led his loyal Waziri toward  the dead city of Opar, Werper, the renegade, haunted his trail through  the long, hot days, and camped close behind him by night.    And as they marched, Achmet Zek rode with his entire following  southward toward the Greystoke farm.    To Tarzan of the Apes the expedition was in the nature of a holiday  outing.  His civilization was at best but an outward veneer which he  gladly peeled off with his uncomfortable European clothes whenever any  reasonable pretext presented itself.  It was a woman's love which kept  Tarzan even to the semblance of civilization--a condition for which  familiarity had bred contempt.  He hated the shams and the hypocrisies  of it and with the clear vision of an unspoiled mind he had penetrated  to the rotten core of the heart of the thing--the cowardly greed for  peace and ease and the safe-guarding of property rights.  That the fine  things of life--art, music and literature--had thriven upon such  enervating ideals he strenuously denied, insisting, rather, that they  had endured in spite of civilization.    "Show me the fat, opulent coward," he was wont to say, "who ever  originated a beautiful ideal.  In the clash of arms, in the battle for  survival, amid hunger and death and danger, in the face of God as  manifested in the display of Nature's most terrific forces, is born all  
