 possession.  When he killed he shared the meat with Werper; but had  Werper ever, by accident, laid a hand upon Tarzan's share, he would  have aroused the same savage, and resentful warning.    From that occurrence dated the beginning of a great fear in the breast  of the Belgian for his savage companion.  He had never understood the  transformation that had been wrought in Tarzan by the blow upon his  head, other than to attribute it to a form of amnesia.  That Tarzan had  once been, in truth, a savage, jungle beast, Werper had not known, and  so, of course, he could not guess that the man had reverted to the  state in which his childhood and young manhood had been spent.    Now Werper saw in the Englishman a dangerous maniac, whom the slightest  untoward accident might turn upon him with rending fangs.  Not for a  moment did Werper attempt to delude himself into the belief that he  could defend himself successfully against an attack by the ape-man.  His one hope lay in eluding him, and making for the far distant camp of  Achmet Zek as rapidly as he could; but armed only with the sacrificial  knife, Werper shrank from attempting the journey through the jungle.  Tarzan constituted a protection that was by no means despicable, even  in the face of the larger carnivora, as Werper had reason to  acknowledge from the evidence he had witnessed in the Oparian temple.    Too, Werper had his covetous soul set upon the pouch of gems, and so he  was torn between the various emotions of avarice and fear.  But avarice  it was that burned most strongly in his breast, to the end that he  dared the dangers and suffered the terrors of constant association with  him he thought a mad man, rather than give up the hope of obtaining  possession of the fortune which the contents of the little pouch  represented.    Achmet Zek should know nothing of these--these would be for Werper  alone, and so soon as he could encompass his design he would reach the  coast and take passage for America, where he could conceal himself  beneath the veil of a new identity and enjoy to some measure the fruits 
