concealment to undertake a systematic search of his surroundings, in  the hope that he might discover the location of the treasure in ample  time to make his escape before Tarzan returned, for it was the  Belgian's desire merely to locate the gold, that, after Tarzan had  departed, he might come in safety with his followers and carry away as  much as he could transport.    He found the narrow cleft leading downward into the heart of the kopje  along well-worn, granite steps.  He advanced quite to the dark mouth of  the tunnel into which the runway disappeared; but here he halted,  fearing to enter, lest he meet Tarzan returning.    The ape-man, far ahead of him, groped his way along the rocky passage,  until he came to the ancient wooden door.  A moment later he stood  within the treasure chamber, where, ages since, long-dead hands had  ranged the lofty rows of precious ingots for the rulers of that great  continent which now lies submerged beneath the waters of the Atlantic.    No sound broke the stillness of the subterranean vault.  There was no  evidence that another had discovered the forgotten wealth since last  the ape-man had visited its hiding place.    Satisfied, Tarzan turned and retraced his steps toward the summit of  the kopje.  Werper, from the concealment of a jutting, granite  shoulder, watched him pass up from the shadows of the stairway and  advance toward the edge of the hill which faced the rim of the valley  where the Waziri awaited the signal of their master.  Then Werper,  slipping stealthily from his hiding place, dropped into the somber  darkness of the entrance and disappeared.    Tarzan, halting upon the kopje's edge, raised his voice in the  thunderous roar of a lion.  Twice, at regular intervals, he repeated  the call, standing in attentive silence for several minutes after the  echoes of the third call had died away.  And then, from far across the  valley, faintly, came an answering roar--once, twice, thrice.  Basuli,  the Waziri chieftain, had heard and replied.    Tarzan again made his way toward the treasure vault, knowing that in a  few hours his blacks would be with him, ready to bear away another 
