act of the man upon whom she had been looking as her sole protector in  the midst of a world of enemies and dangers.    On the march a separate tent had been provided for the captive, and at  night it was pitched between those of Mohammed Beyd and Werper.  A  sentry was posted at the front and another at the back, and with these  precautions it had not been thought necessary to confine the prisoner  to bonds.  The evening following her interview with Mohammed Beyd, Jane  Clayton sat for some time at the opening of her tent watching the rough  activities of the camp.  She had eaten the meal that had been brought  her by Mohammed Beyd's Negro slave--a meal of cassava cakes and a  nondescript stew in which a new-killed monkey, a couple of squirrels  and the remains of a zebra, slain the previous day, were impartially  and unsavorily combined; but the one-time Baltimore belle had long  since submerged in the stern battle for existence, an estheticism which  formerly revolted at much slighter provocation.    As the girl's eyes wandered across the trampled jungle clearing,  already squalid from the presence of man, she no longer apprehended  either the nearer objects of the foreground, the uncouth men laughing  or quarreling among themselves, or the jungle beyond, which  circumscribed the extreme range of her material vision.  Her gaze  passed through all these, unseeing, to center itself upon a distant  bungalow and scenes of happy security which brought to her eyes tears  of mingled joy and sorrow.  She saw a tall, broad-shouldered man riding  in from distant fields; she saw herself waiting to greet him with an  armful of fresh-cut roses from the bushes which flanked the little  rustic gate before her.  All this was gone, vanished into the past,  wiped out by the torches and bullets and hatred of these hideous and  degenerate men.  With a stifled sob, and a little shudder, Jane Clayton  turned back into her tent and sought the pile of unclean blankets which  were her bed.  Throwing herself face downward upon them she sobbed  forth her misery until kindly sleep brought her, at least temporary,  
