and his heart all but ceased its beating as he awaited the result of  this interruption.  At a walk the horseman approached.  Would the  nervous animal he rode take fright at the odor of the carnivore, and,  bolting, leave Werper still to the mercies of the king of beasts?    But he seemed unmindful of the near presence of the great cat.  On he  came, his neck arched, champing at the bit between his teeth.  The  Belgian turned his eyes again toward the lion.  The beast's whole  attention now seemed riveted upon the horseman.  They were abreast the  lion now, and still the brute did not spring.  Could he be but waiting  for them to pass before returning his attention to the original prey?  Werper shuddered and half rose.  At the same instant the lion sprang  from his place of concealment, full upon the mounted man.  The horse,  with a shrill neigh of terror, shrank sideways almost upon the Belgian,  the lion dragged the helpless Arab from his saddle, and the horse  leaped back into the trail and fled away toward the west.    But he did not flee alone.  As the frightened beast had pressed in upon  him, Werper had not been slow to note the quickly emptied saddle and  the opportunity it presented. Scarcely had the lion dragged the Arab  down from one side, than the Belgian, seizing the pommel of the saddle  and the horse's mane, leaped upon the horse's back from the other.    A half hour later a naked giant, swinging easily through the lower  branches of the trees, paused, and with raised head, and dilating  nostrils sniffed the morning air.  The smell of blood fell strong upon  his senses, and mingled with it was the scent of Numa, the lion.  The  giant cocked his head upon one side and listened.    From a short distance up the trail came the unmistakable noises of the  greedy feeding of a lion.  The crunching of bones, the gulping of great  pieces, the contented growling, all attested the nearness of the king  at table.    Tarzan approached the spot, still keeping to the branches of the trees. 
