  It was with growing difficulty that he found the strength necessary to  construct a shelter by night wherein he might be reasonably safe from  the large carnivora, and by day he still further exhausted his strength  in digging for edible roots, and searching for water.    A few stagnant pools at considerable distances apart saved him from  death by thirst; but his was a pitiable state when finally he stumbled  by accident upon a large river in a country where fruit was abundant,  and small game which he might bag by means of a combination of stealth,  cunning, and a crude knob-stick which he had fashioned from a fallen  limb.    Realizing that he still had a long march ahead of him before he could  reach even the outskirts of the Waziri country, Mugambi wisely decided  to remain where he was until he had recuperated his strength and  health.  A few days' rest would accomplish wonders for him, he knew,  and he could ill afford to sacrifice his chances for a safe return by  setting forth handicapped by weakness.    And so it was that he constructed a substantial thorn boma, and rigged  a thatched shelter within it, where he might sleep by night in  security, and from which he sallied forth by day to hunt the flesh  which alone could return to his giant thews their normal prowess.    One day, as he hunted, a pair of savage eyes discovered him from the  concealment of the branches of a great tree beneath which the black  warrior passed.  Bloodshot, wicked eyes they were, set in a fierce and  hairy face.    They watched Mugambi make his little kill of a small rodent, and they  followed him as he returned to his hut, their owner moving quietly  through the trees upon the trail of the Negro.    The creature was Chulk, and he looked down upon the unconscious man  more in curiosity than in hate.  The wearing of the Arab burnoose which  Tarzan had placed upon his person had aroused in the mind of the  anthropoid a desire for similar mimicry of the Tarmangani.  The  burnoose, though, had obstructed his movements and proven such a 
