   By dint of threats, reproaches and profanity the Belgian officer  succeeded in persuading his trembling command to fire a volley after  the retreating apes.  A ragged, straggling volley it was, but at least  one of its bullets found a mark, for as the jungle closed about the  hairy rescuers, Chulk, who bore Werper across one broad shoulder,  staggered and fell.    In an instant he was up again; but the Belgian guessed from his  unsteady gait that he was hard hit.  He lagged far behind the others,  and it was several minutes after they had halted at Tarzan's command  before he came slowly up to them, reeling from side to side, and at  last falling again beneath the weight of his burden and the shock of  his wound.    As Chulk went down he dropped Werper, so that the latter fell face  downward with the body of the ape lying half across him.  In this  position the Belgian felt something resting against his hands, which  were still bound at his back--something that was not a part of the  hairy body of the ape.    Mechanically the man's fingers felt of the object resting almost in  their grasp--it was a soft pouch, filled with small, hard particles.  Werper gasped in wonderment as recognition filtered through the  incredulity of his mind.  It was impossible, and yet--it was true!    Feverishly he strove to remove the pouch from the ape and transfer it  to his own possession; but the restricted radius to which his bonds  held his hands prevented this, though he did succeed in tucking the  pouch with its precious contents inside the waist band of his trousers.    Tarzan, sitting at a short distance, was busy with the remaining knots  of the cords which bound him.  Presently he flung aside the last of  them and rose to his feet.  Approaching Werper he knelt beside him.  For a moment he examined the ape.    "Quite dead," he announced.  "It is too bad--he was a splendid  creature," and then he turned to the work of liberating the Belgian.    He freed his hands first, and then commenced upon the knots at his 
