concealed pit, for the ways of the blacks were still strange ways to  Tarzan.  They had entered his jungle but a short time before--the first  of their kind to encroach upon the age-old supremacy of the beasts  which laired there.  To Numa, the lion, to Tantor, the elephant, to the  great apes and the lesser apes, to each and all of the myriad creatures  of this savage wild, the ways of man were new.  They had much to learn  of these black, hairless creatures that walked erect upon their hind  paws--and they were learning it slowly, and always to their sorrow.    Shortly after the blacks had departed, Tarzan swung easily to the  trail.  Sniffing suspiciously, he circled the edge of the pit.  Squatting upon his haunches, he scraped away a little earth to expose  one of the cross-bars. He sniffed at this, touched it, cocked his head  upon one side, and contemplated it gravely for several minutes.  Then  he carefully re-covered it, arranging the earth as neatly as had the  blacks.  This done, he swung himself back among the branches of the  trees and moved off in search of his hairy fellows, the great apes of  the tribe of Kerchak.    Once he crossed the trail of Numa, the lion, pausing for a moment to  hurl a soft fruit at the snarling face of his enemy, and to taunt and  insult him, calling him eater of carrion and brother of Dango, the  hyena.  Numa, his yellow-green eyes round and burning with concentrated  hate, glared up at the dancing figure above him.  Low growls vibrated  his heavy jowls and his great rage transmitted to his sinuous tail a  sharp, whiplike motion; but realizing from past experience the futility  of long distance argument with the ape-man, he turned presently and  struck off into the tangled vegetation which hid him from the view of  his tormentor.  With a final scream of jungle invective and an apelike  grimace at his departing foe, Tarzan continued along his way.    Another mile and a shifting wind brought to his keen nostrils a  familiar, pungent odor close at hand, and a moment later there loomed 
