fighter! None in all the jungle so great as Tarzan."    Then he made his way back in the direction of Taug.  Teeka had watched  the happenings in the tree.  She had even placed her precious balu upon  the soft grasses and come a little nearer that she might better witness  all that was passing in the branches above her.  In her heart of hearts  did she still esteem the smooth-skinned Tarzan?  Did her savage breast  swell with pride as she witnessed his victory over the ape? You will  have to ask Teeka.    And Sheeta, the panther, saw that the she-ape had left her cub alone  among the grasses.  He moved his tail again, as though this closest  approximation of lashing in which he dared indulge might stimulate his  momentarily waned courage.  The cry of the victorious ape-man still  held his nerves beneath its spell.  It would be several minutes before  he again could bring himself to the point of charging into view of the  giant anthropoids.    And as he regathered his forces, Tarzan reached Taug's side, and then  clambering higher up to the point where the end of the grass rope was  made fast, he unloosed it and lowered the ape slowly downward, swinging  him in until the clutching hands fastened upon a limb.    Quickly Taug drew himself to a position of safety and shook off the  noose.  In his rage-maddened heart was no room for gratitude to the  ape-man. He recalled only the fact that Tarzan had laid this painful  indignity upon him.  He would be revenged, but just at present his legs  were so numb and his head so dizzy that he must postpone the  gratification of his vengeance.    Tarzan was coiling his rope the while he lectured Taug on the futility  of pitting his poor powers, physical and intellectual, against those of  his betters.  Teeka had come close beneath the tree and was peering  upward.  Sheeta was worming his way stealthily forward, his belly close  to the ground.  In another moment he would be clear of the underbrush  and ready for the rapid charge and the quick retreat that would end the 
