upon a low-swinging branch in a near-by tree and looked down upon her.    Just to have seen him there, lolling upon the swaying bough of the  jungle-forest giant, his brown skin mottled by the brilliant equatorial  sunlight which percolated through the leafy canopy of green above him,  his clean-limbed body relaxed in graceful ease, his shapely head partly  turned in contemplative absorption and his intelligent, gray eyes  dreamily devouring the object of their devotion, you would have thought  him the reincarnation of some demigod of old.    You would not have guessed that in infancy he had suckled at the breast  of a hideous, hairy she-ape, nor that in all his conscious past since  his parents had passed away in the little cabin by the landlocked  harbor at the jungle's verge, he had known no other associates than the  sullen bulls and the snarling cows of the tribe of Kerchak, the great  ape.    Nor, could you have read the thoughts which passed through that active,  healthy brain, the longings and desires and aspirations which the sight  of Teeka inspired, would you have been any more inclined to give  credence to the reality of the origin of the ape-man. For, from his  thoughts alone, you could never have gleaned the truth--that he had  been born to a gentle English lady or that his sire had been an English  nobleman of time-honored lineage.    Lost to Tarzan of the Apes was the truth of his origin.  That he was  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, with a seat in the House of Lords, he did  not know, nor, knowing, would have understood.    Yes, Teeka was indeed beautiful!    Of course Kala had been beautiful--one's mother is always that--but  Teeka was beautiful in a way all her own, an indescribable sort of way  which Tarzan was just beginning to sense in a rather vague and hazy  manner.    For years had Tarzan and Teeka been play-fellows, and Teeka still  continued to be playful while the young bulls of her own age were  rapidly becoming surly and morose.  Tarzan, if he gave the matter much  thought at all, probably reasoned that his growing attachment for the 
