saw her, the she-ape leaped upon the glistening body of the snake, and  as the mighty folds encircled her as well as her offspring, she made no  effort to escape, but instead grasped the writhing body in a futile  effort to tear it from her screaming balu.    Tarzan knew all too well how deep-rooted was Teeka's terror of Histah.  He scarce could believe the testimony of his own eyes then, when they  told him that she had voluntarily rushed into that deadly embrace.  Nor  was Teeka's innate dread of the monster much greater than Tarzan's own.  Never, willingly, had he touched a snake.  Why, he could not say, for  he would admit fear of nothing; nor was it fear, but rather an inherent  repulsion bequeathed to him by many generations of civilized ancestors,  and back of them, perhaps, by countless myriads of such as Teeka, in  the breasts of each of which had lurked the same nameless terror of the  slimy reptile.    Yet Tarzan did not hesitate more than had Teeka, but leaped upon Histah  with all the speed and impetuosity that he would have shown had he been  springing upon Bara, the deer, to make a kill for food.  Thus beset the  snake writhed and twisted horribly; but not for an instant did it loose  its hold upon any of its intended victims, for it had included the  ape-man in its cold embrace the minute that he had fallen upon it.    Still clinging to the tree, the mighty reptile held the three as though  they had been without weight, the while it sought to crush the life  from them.  Tarzan had drawn his knife and this he now plunged rapidly  into the body of the enemy; but the encircling folds promised to sap  his life before he had inflicted a death wound upon the snake.  Yet on  he fought, nor once did he seek to escape the horrid death that  confronted him--his sole aim was to slay Histah and thus free Teeka and  her balu.    The great, wide-gaping jaws of the snake turned and hovered above him.  The elastic maw, which could accommodate a rabbit or a horned buck with 
