 guarded him to leap back even though their prisoner's arms were  securely bound behind him.    With raised spears they encircled him as for a moment longer he stood  listening.  Faintly from the distance came another, an answering cry,  and Tarzan of the Apes, satisfied, turned and quietly pursued his way  toward the hut where he was to be imprisoned.    The afternoon wore on.  From the surrounding village the ape-man heard  the bustle of preparation for the feast.  Through the doorway of the  hut he saw the women laying the cooking fires and filling their earthen  caldrons with water; but above it all his ears were bent across the  jungle in eager listening for the coming of Tantor.    Even Tarzan but half believed that he would come.  He knew Tantor even  better than Tantor knew himself.  He knew the timid heart which lay in  the giant body.  He knew the panic of terror which the scent of the  Gomangani inspired within that savage breast, and as night drew on,  hope died within his heart and in the stoic calm of the wild beast  which he was, he resigned himself to meet the fate which awaited him.    All afternoon he had been working, working, working with the bonds that  held his wrists.  Very slowly they were giving.  He might free his  hands before they came to lead him out to be butchered, and if he  did--Tarzan licked his lips in anticipation, and smiled a cold, grim  smile.  He could imagine the feel of soft flesh beneath his fingers and  the sinking of his white teeth into the throats of his foemen.  He  would let them taste his wrath before they overpowered him!    At last they came--painted, befeathered warriors--even more hideous  than nature had intended them.  They came and pushed him into the open,  where his appearance was greeted by wild shouts from the assembled  villagers.    To the stake they led him, and as they pushed him roughly against it  preparatory to binding him there securely for the dance of death that  would presently encircle him, Tarzan tensed his mighty thews and with a 
