  As the two hunted, or rather as Tarzan hunted and Go-bu-balu tagged  along in his wake, the ape-man noticed many things and thought much.  Once they came upon Sabor moaning in the tall grasses.  About her  romped and played two little balls of fur, but her eyes were for one  which lay between her great forepaws and did not romp, one who never  would romp again.    Tarzan read aright the anguish and the suffering of the huge mother  cat.  He had been minded to bait her.  It was to do this that he had  sneaked silently through the trees until he had come almost above her,  but something held the ape-man as he saw the lioness grieving over her  dead cub.  With the acquisition of Go-bu-balu, Tarzan had come to  realize the responsibilities and sorrows of parentage, without its  joys.  His heart went out to Sabor as it might not have done a few  weeks before.  As he watched her, there rose quite unbidden before him  a vision of Momaya, the skewer through the septum of her nose, her  pendulous under lip sagging beneath the weight which dragged it down.  Tarzan saw not her unloveliness; he saw only the same anguish that was  Sabor's, and he winced.  That strange functioning of the mind which  sometimes is called association of ideas snapped Teeka and Gazan before  the ape-man's mental vision.  What if one should come and take Gazan  from Teeka.  Tarzan uttered a low and ominous growl as though Gazan  were his own.  Go-bu-balu glanced here and there apprehensively,  thinking that Tarzan had espied an enemy.  Sabor sprang suddenly to her  feet, her yellow-green eyes blazing, her tail lashing as she cocked her  ears, and raising her muzzle, sniffed the air for possible danger.  The  two little cubs, which had been playing, scampered quickly to her, and  standing beneath her, peered out from between her forelegs, their big  ears upstanding, their little heads cocked first upon one side and then  upon the other.    With a shake of his black shock, Tarzan turned away and resumed his  hunting in another direction; but all day there rose one after another, 
