 in the village street, he saw men and women.  The men were hideously  painted--more hideously than usual.  Among them moved a weird and  grotesque figure, a tall figure that went upon the two legs of a man  and yet had the head of a buffalo.  A tail dangled to his ankles behind  him, and in one hand he carried a zebra's tail while the other clutched  a bunch of small arrows.    Tarzan was electrified.  Could it be that chance had given him thus  early an opportunity to look upon God? Surely this thing was neither  man nor beast, so what could it be then other than the Creator of the  Universe! The ape-man watched the every move of the strange creature.  He saw the black men and women fall back at its approach as though they  stood in terror of its mysterious powers.    Presently he discovered that the deity was speaking and that all  listened in silence to his words.  Tarzan was sure that none other than  God could inspire such awe in the hearts of the Gomangani, or stop  their mouths so effectually without recourse to arrows or spears.  Tarzan had come to look with contempt upon the blacks, principally  because of their garrulity.  The small apes talked a great deal and ran  away from an enemy.  The big, old bulls of Kerchak talked but little  and fought upon the slightest provocation.  Numa, the lion, was not  given to loquacity, yet of all the jungle folk there were few who  fought more often than he.    Tarzan witnessed strange things that night, none of which he  understood, and, perhaps because they were strange, he thought that  they must have to do with the God he could not understand.  He saw  three youths receive their first war spears in a weird ceremony which  the grotesque witch-doctor strove successfully to render uncanny and  awesome.    Hugely interested, he watched the slashing of the three brown arms and  the exchange of blood with Mbonga, the chief, in the rites of the  ceremony of blood brotherhood.  He saw the zebra's tail dipped into a  caldron of water above which the witch-doctor had made magical passes 
