 Instantly she realized what the bull purposed.  Gazan clung far out  upon a swaying limb.  At the first shake he lost his balance, though he  did not quite fall, clinging still with his four hands; but Toog  redoubled his efforts; the shaking produced a violent snapping of the  limb to which the young ape clung.  Teeka saw all too plainly what the  outcome must be and forgetting her own danger in the depth of her  mother love, rushed forward to ascend the tree and give battle to the  fearsome creature that menaced the life of her little one.    But before ever she reached the bole, Toog had succeeded, by violent  shaking of the branch, to loosen Gazan's hold.  With a cry the little  fellow plunged down through the foliage, clutching futilely for a new  hold, and alighted with a sickening thud at his mother's feet, where he  lay silent and motionless.  Moaning, Teeka stooped to lift the still  form in her arms; but at the same instant Toog was upon her.    Struggling and biting she fought to free herself; but the giant muscles  of the great bull were too much for her lesser strength.  Toog struck  and choked her repeatedly until finally, half unconscious, she lapsed  into quasi submission.  Then the bull lifted her to his shoulder and  turned back to the trail toward the south from whence he had come.    Upon the ground lay the quiet form of little Gazan.  He did not moan.  He did not move.  The sun rose slowly toward meridian.  A mangy thing,  lifting its nose to scent the jungle breeze, crept through the  underbrush.  It was Dango, the hyena.  Presently its ugly muzzle broke  through some near-by foliage and its cruel eyes fastened upon Gazan.    Early that morning, Tarzan of the Apes had gone to the cabin by the  sea, where he passed many an hour at such times as the tribe was  ranging in the vicinity.  On the floor lay the skeleton of a man--all  that remained of the former Lord Greystoke--lay as it had fallen some  twenty years before when Kerchak, the great ape, had thrown it, 
