 a short experience of the little black boy had made it quite plain to  the ape-man that no such sentiment could exist between them.    The fact that he had for a time treated the little black as he might  have treated a real balu of his own had in no way altered the vengeful  sentiments with which he considered the murderers of Kala.  The  Gomangani were his deadly enemies, nor could they ever be aught else.  Today he looked forward to some slight relief from the monotony of his  existence in such excitement as he might derive from baiting the blacks.    It was not yet dark when he reached the village and took his place in  the great tree overhanging the palisade.  From beneath came a great  wailing out of the depths of a near-by hut.  The noise fell  disagreeably upon Tarzan's ears--it jarred and grated.  He did not like  it, so he decided to go away for a while in the hopes that it might  cease; but though he was gone for a couple of hours the wailing still  continued when he returned.    With the intention of putting a violent termination to the annoying  sound, Tarzan slipped silently from the tree into the shadows beneath.  Creeping stealthily and keeping well in the cover of other huts, he  approached that from which rose the sounds of lamentation.  A fire  burned brightly before the doorway as it did before other doorways in  the village.  A few females squatted about, occasionally adding their  own mournful howlings to those of the master artist within.    The ape-man smiled a slow smile as he thought of the consternation  which would follow the quick leap that would carry him among the  females and into the full light of the fire.  Then he would dart into  the hut during the excitement, throttle the chief screamer, and be gone  into the jungle before the blacks could gather their scattered nerves  for an assault.    Many times had Tarzan behaved similarly in the village of Mbonga, the  chief.  His mysterious and unexpected appearances always filled the  breasts of the poor, superstitious blacks with the panic of terror; 
