with his photographs and Bertillon measurements, equipped to recognize  a fugitive from civilized justice.    But with all their high-strung and delicately attuned perceptive  faculties the two bulls of the tribe of Kerchak were often sore pressed  to follow the trail at all, and at best were so delayed that in the  afternoon of the second day, they still had not overhauled the  fugitive.  The scent was now strong, for it had been made since the  rain, and Tarzan knew that it would not be long before they came upon  the thief and his loot.  Above them, as they crept stealthily forward,  chattered Manu, the monkey, and his thousand fellows; squawked and  screamed the brazen-throated birds of plumage; buzzed and hummed the  countless insects amid the rustling of the forest leaves, and, as they  passed, a little gray-beard, squeaking and scolding upon a swaying  branch, looked down and saw them.  Instantly the scolding and squeaking  ceased, and off tore the long-tailed mite as though Sheeta, the  panther, had been endowed with wings and was in close pursuit of him.  To all appearances he was only a very much frightened little monkey,  fleeing for his life--there seemed nothing sinister about him.    And what of Teeka during all this time? Was she at last resigned to her  fate and accompanying her new mate in the proper humility of a loving  and tractable spouse?  A single glance at the pair would have answered  these questions to the utter satisfaction of the most captious.  She  was torn and bleeding from many wounds, inflicted by the sullen Toog in  his vain efforts to subdue her to his will, and Toog too was disfigured  and mutilated; but with stubborn ferocity, he still clung to his now  useless prize.    On through the jungle he forced his way in the direction of the  stamping ground of his tribe.  He hoped that his king would have  forgotten his treason; but if not he was still resigned to his  fate--any fate would be better than suffering longer the sole  companionship of this frightful she, and then, too, he wished to  exhibit his captive to his fellows.  Maybe he could wish her on the 
