And so the night wore on, dream following dream, nightmare following  nightmare, until the distracted ape-man started like a frightened deer  at the rustling of the wind in the trees about him, or leaped to his  feet as the uncanny laugh of a hyena burst suddenly upon a momentary  jungle silence.  But at last the tardy morning broke and a sick and  feverish Tarzan wound sluggishly through the dank and gloomy mazes of  the forest in search of water.  His whole body seemed on fire, a great  sickness surged upward to his throat.  He saw a tangle of almost  impenetrable thicket, and, like the wild beast he was, he crawled into  it to die alone and unseen, safe from the attacks of predatory  carnivora.    But he did not die.  For a long time he wanted to; but presently nature  and an outraged stomach relieved themselves in their own therapeutic  manner, the ape-man broke into a violent perspiration and then fell  into a normal and untroubled sleep which persisted well into the  afternoon.  When he awoke he found himself weak but no longer sick.    Once more he sought water, and after drinking deeply, took his way  slowly toward the cabin by the sea.  In times of loneliness and trouble  it had long been his custom to seek there the quiet and restfulness  which he could find nowhere else.    As he approached the cabin and raised the crude latch which his father  had fashioned so many years before, two small, blood-shot eyes watched  him from the concealing foliage of the jungle close by.  From beneath  shaggy, beetling brows they glared maliciously upon him, maliciously  and with a keen curiosity; then Tarzan entered the cabin and closed the  door after him.  Here, with all the world shut out from him, he could  dream without fear of interruption.  He could curl up and look at the  pictures in the strange things which were books, he could puzzle out  the printed word he had learned to read without knowledge of the spoken  language it represented, he could live in a wonderful world of which he  had no knowledge beyond the covers of his beloved books.  Numa and 
