 "Come, Manu," said Tarzan, "and you will see that which shall make you  dance for joy and squeal your wrinkled little head off.  Come, follow  Tarzan of the Apes."    With that he set off in the direction Manu had indicated and above him,  chattering, scolding and squealing, skipped Manu, the monkey.  Across  Tarzan's shoulders was the thing he had stolen from the village of  Mbonga, the chief, the evening before.    The tribe was feeding in the forest beside the clearing where Gunto,  and Taug, and Tarzan had so harassed Numa and finally taken away from  him the fruit of his kill.  Some of them were in the clearing itself.  In peace and content they fed, for were there not three sentries, each  watching upon a different side of the herd? Tarzan had taught them  this, and though he had been away for several days hunting alone, as he  often did, or visiting at the cabin by the sea, they had not as yet  forgotten his admonitions, and if they continued for a short time  longer to post sentries, it would become a habit of their tribal life  and thus be perpetuated indefinitely.    But Tarzan, who knew them better than they knew themselves, was  confident that they had ceased to place the watchers about them the  moment that he had left them, and now he planned not only to have a  little fun at their expense but to teach them a lesson in preparedness,  which, by the way, is even a more vital issue in the jungle than in  civilized places.  That you and I exist today must be due to the  preparedness of some shaggy anthropoid of the Oligocene.  Of course the  apes of Kerchak were always prepared, after their own way--Tarzan had  merely suggested a new and additional safeguard.    Gunto was posted today to the north of the clearing.  He squatted in  the fork of a tree from where he might view the jungle for quite a  distance about him.  It was he who first discovered the enemy.  A  rustling in the undergrowth attracted his attention, and a moment later  he had a partial view of a shaggy mane and tawny yellow back.  Just a 
