 jugular; then he dragged it, bleeding, along the trail down to the  drinking hole, the half smile persisting upon his ordinarily grave  face.  At the water's edge the ape-man stooped and with hunting knife  and quick strong fingers deftly removed the dead kid's viscera.  Scraping a hole in the mud, he buried these parts which he did not eat,  and swinging the body to his shoulder took to the trees.    For a short distance he pursued his way in the wake of the black  warriors, coming down presently to bury the meat of his kill where it  would be safe from the depredations of Dango, the hyena, or the other  meat-eating beasts and birds of the jungle.  He was hungry.  Had he  been all beast he would have eaten; but his man-mind could entertain  urges even more potent than those of the belly, and now he was  concerned with an idea which kept a smile upon his lips and his eyes  sparkling in anticipation.  An idea, it was, which permitted him to  forget that he was hungry.    The meat safely cached, Tarzan trotted along the elephant trail after  the Gomangani.  Two or three miles from the cage he overtook them and  then he swung into the trees and followed above and behind  them--waiting his chance.    Among the blacks was Rabba Kega, the witch-doctor. Tarzan hated them  all; but Rabba Kega he especially hated.  As the blacks filed along the  winding path, Rabba Kega, being lazy, dropped behind.  This Tarzan  noted, and it filled him with satisfaction--his being radiated a grim  and terrible content.  Like an angel of death he hovered above the  unsuspecting black.    Rabba Kega, knowing that the village was but a short distance ahead,  sat down to rest.  Rest well, O Rabba Kega! It is thy last opportunity.    Tarzan crept stealthily among the branches of the tree above the  well-fed, self-satisfied witch-doctor.  He made no noise that the dull  ears of man could hear above the soughing of the gentle jungle breeze  among the undulating foliage of the upper terraces, and when he came  close above the black man he halted, well concealed by leafy branch and 
