 watching the stars--the flaming eyes of the beasts of prey surrounding  Goro, the moon--Goro, by whose light the apes danced to the beating of  their earthen drums.  If Goro should be eaten by Numa there could be no  more Dum-Dums. Taug was overwhelmed by the thought.  He glanced at  Tarzan half fearfully.  Why was his friend so different from the others  of the tribe? No one else whom Taug ever had known had had such queer  thoughts as Tarzan.  The ape scratched his head and wondered, dimly, if  Tarzan was a safe companion, and then he recalled slowly, and by a  laborious mental process, that Tarzan had served him better than any  other of the apes, even the strong and wise bulls of the tribe.    Tarzan it was who had freed him from the blacks at the very time that  Taug had thought Tarzan wanted Teeka.  It was Tarzan who had saved  Taug's little balu from death.  It was Tarzan who had conceived and  carried out the plan to pursue Teeka's abductor and rescue the stolen  one.  Tarzan had fought and bled in Taug's service so many times that  Taug, although only a brutal ape, had had impressed upon his mind a  fierce loyalty which nothing now could swerve--his friendship for  Tarzan had become a habit, a tradition almost, which would endure while  Taug endured.  He never showed any outward demonstration of  affection--he growled at Tarzan as he growled at the other bulls who  came too close while he was feeding--but he would have died for Tarzan.  He knew it and Tarzan knew it; but of such things apes do not  speak--their vocabulary, for the finer instincts, consisting more of  actions than words.  But now Taug was worried, and he fell asleep again  still thinking of the strange words of his fellow.    The following day he thought of them again, and without any intention  of disloyalty he mentioned to Gunto what Tarzan had suggested about the  eyes surrounding Goro, and the possibility that sooner or later Numa  would charge the moon and devour him.  To the apes all large things in  nature are male, and so Goro, being the largest creature in the heavens 
