"What is it?" he whispered.    "It is Bwana Tarzan and his people," replied Mugambi.   "But what they  are doing I know not, unless it be that they are devouring your people  who ran away."    Kaviri shuddered and rolled his eyes fearfully toward the jungle.  In  all his long life in the savage forest he had never heard such an  awful, fearsome din.    Closer and closer came the sounds, and now with them were mingled the  terrified shrieks of women and children and of men.  For twenty long  minutes the blood-curdling cries continued, until they seemed but a  stone's throw from the palisade.  Kaviri rose to flee, but Mugambi  seized and held him, for such had been the command of Tarzan.    A moment later a horde of terrified natives burst from the jungle,  racing toward the shelter of their huts.  Like frightened sheep they  ran, and behind them, driving them as sheep might be driven, came  Tarzan and Sheeta and the hideous apes of Akut.    Presently Tarzan stood before Kaviri, the old quiet smile upon his lips.    "Your people have returned, my brother," he said, "and now you may  select those who are to accompany me and paddle my canoe."    Tremblingly Kaviri tottered to his feet, calling to his people to come  from their huts; but none responded to his summons.    "Tell them," suggested Tarzan, "that if they do not come I shall send  my people in after them."    Kaviri did as he was bid, and in an instant the entire population of  the village came forth, their wide and frightened eyes rolling from one  to another of the savage creatures that wandered about the village  street.    Quickly Kaviri designated a dozen warriors to accompany Tarzan.  The  poor fellows went almost white with terror at the prospect of close  contact with the panther and the apes in the narrow confines of the  canoes; but when Kaviri explained to them that there was no  escape--that Bwana Tarzan would pursue them with his grim horde should  they attempt to run away from the duty--they finally went gloomily down 
