All that night the creature pursued its lonely way, and the next day it  halted only to make a single kill, which it tore to fragments and  devoured with sullen, grumbling rumbles as though half famished for  lack of food.    It was dusk when it approached the palisade that surrounded a large  native village.  Like the shadow of a swift and silent death it circled  the village, nose to ground, halting at last close to the palisade,  where it almost touched the backs of several huts.  Here the beast  sniffed for a moment, and then, turning its head upon one side,  listened with up-pricked ears.    What it heard was no sound by the standards of human ears, yet to the  highly attuned and delicate organs of the beast a message seemed to be  borne to the savage brain.  A wondrous transformation was wrought in  the motionless mass of statuesque bone and muscle that had an instant  before stood as though carved out of the living bronze.    As if it had been poised upon steel springs, suddenly released, it rose  quickly and silently to the top of the palisade, disappearing,  stealthily and cat-like, into the dark space between the wall and the  back of an adjacent hut.    In the village street beyond women were preparing many little fires and  fetching cooking-pots filled with water, for a great feast was to be  celebrated ere the night was many hours older.   About a stout stake  near the centre of the circling fires a little knot of black warriors  stood conversing, their bodies smeared with white and blue and ochre in  broad and grotesque bands.   Great circles of colour were drawn about  their eyes and lips, their breasts and abdomens, and from their  clay-plastered coiffures rose gay feathers and bits of long, straight  wire.    The village was preparing for the feast, while in a hut at one side of  the scene of the coming orgy the bound victim of their bestial  appetites lay waiting for the end.  And such an end!    Tarzan of the Apes, tensing his mighty muscles, strained at the bonds 
