yourself against    N. R.    "P.S.--The balance of your punishment has to do with what shall  presently befall your wife--that I shall leave to your imagination."      As he finished reading, a slight sound behind him brought him back with  a start to the world of present realities.    Instantly his senses awoke, and he was again Tarzan of the Apes.    As he wheeled about, it was a beast at bay, vibrant with the instinct  of self-preservation, that faced a huge bull-ape that was already  charging down upon him.    The two years that had elapsed since Tarzan had come out of the savage  forest with his rescued mate had witnessed slight diminution of the  mighty powers that had made him the invincible lord of the jungle.  His  great estates in Uziri had claimed much of his time and attention, and  there he had found ample field for the practical use and retention of  his almost superhuman powers; but naked and unarmed to do battle with  the shaggy, bull-necked beast that now confronted him was a test that  the ape-man would scarce have welcomed at any period of his wild  existence.    But there was no alternative other than to meet the rage-maddened  creature with the weapons with which nature had endowed him.    Over the bull's shoulder Tarzan could see now the heads and shoulders  of perhaps a dozen more of these mighty fore-runners of primitive man.    He knew, however, that there was little chance that they would attack  him, since it is not within the reasoning powers of the anthropoid to  be able to weigh or appreciate the value of concentrated action against  an enemy--otherwise they would long since have become the dominant  creatures of their haunts, so tremendous a power of destruction lies in  their mighty thews and savage fangs.    With a low snarl the beast now hurled himself at Tarzan, but the  ape-man had found, among other things in the haunts of civilized man,  certain methods of scientific warfare that are unknown to the jungle  folk.    Whereas, a few years since, he would have met the brute rush with brute 
