down in their midst, fell assiduously to the business of preening,  which occupies most of the waking hours of the cat family.    If the young woman was surprised by the sight of these natural enemies  fraternizing, it was with emotions little short of fear for her own  sanity that she presently saw a tall, muscular warrior enter the  clearing and join the group of savage beasts assembled there.    At first sight of the man she had been positive that he would be torn  to pieces, and she had half risen from her shelter, raising her rifle  to her shoulder to do what she could to avert the man's terrible fate.    Now she saw that he seemed actually conversing with the beasts--issuing  orders to them.    Presently the entire company filed on across the clearing and  disappeared in the jungle upon the opposite side.    With a gasp of mingled incredulity and relief Jane Clayton staggered to  her feet and fled on away from the terrible horde that had just passed  her, while a half-mile behind her another individual, following the  same trail as she, lay frozen with terror behind an ant-hill as the  hideous band passed quite close to him.    This one was Rokoff; but he had recognized the members of the awful  aggregation as allies of Tarzan of the Apes.   No sooner, therefore,  had the beasts passed him than he rose and raced through the jungle as  fast as he could go, in order that he might put as much distance as  possible between himself and these frightful beasts.    So it happened that as Jane Clayton came to the bank of the river, down  which she hoped to float to the ocean and eventual rescue, Nikolas  Rokoff was but a short distance in her rear.    Upon the bank the girl saw a great dugout drawn half-way from the water  and tied securely to a near-by tree.    This, she felt, would solve the question of transportation to the sea  could she but launch the huge, unwieldy craft.   Unfastening the rope  that had moored it to the tree, Jane pushed frantically upon the bow of 
