As for Sheeta--the great cat understood even less than the apes; but  yet Tarzan could not but marvel at the remarkable characteristics this  beast had evidenced.  That it felt real affection for him there seemed  little doubt, for now that the blacks were disposed of it walked slowly  back and forth about the stake, rubbing its sides against the ape-man's  legs and purring like a contented tabby.  That it had gone of its own  volition to bring the balance of the pack to his rescue, Tarzan could  not doubt.  His Sheeta was indeed a jewel among beasts.    Mugambi's absence worried the ape-man not a little.   He attempted to  learn from Akut what had become of the black, fearing that the beasts,  freed from the restraint of Tarzan's presence, might have fallen upon  the man and devoured him; but to all his questions the great ape but  pointed back in the direction from which they had come out of the  jungle.    The night passed with Tarzan still fast bound to the stake, and shortly  after dawn his fears were realized in the discovery of naked black  figures moving stealthily just within the edge of the jungle about the  village.  The blacks were returning.    With daylight their courage would be equal to the demands of a charge  upon the handful of beasts that had routed them from their rightful  abodes.  The result of the encounter seemed foregone if the savages  could curb their superstitious terror, for against their overwhelming  numbers, their long spears and poisoned arrows, the panther and the  apes could not be expected to survive a really determined attack.    That the blacks were preparing for a charge became apparent a few  moments later, when they commenced to show themselves in force upon the  edge of the clearing, dancing and jumping about as they waved their  spears and shouted taunts and fierce warcries toward the village.    These manoeuvres Tarzan knew would continue until the blacks had worked  themselves into a state of hysterical courage sufficient to sustain  them for a short charge toward the village, and even though he doubted  that they would reach it at the first attempt, he believed that at the 
