the others could not leave Jungle Island without him; but what was  there to prevent Gust, with just sufficient men to man the schooner,  slipping away from Kai Shang, Momulla the Maori, and some half of the  crew when opportunity presented?    It was for this opportunity that Gust waited.  Some day there would  come a moment when Kai Shang, Momulla, and three or four of the others  would be absent from camp, exploring or hunting.  The Swede racked his  brain for some plan whereby he might successfully lure from the sight  of the anchored ship those whom he had determined to abandon.    To this end he organized hunting party after hunting party, but always  the devil of perversity seemed to enter the soul of Kai Shang, so that  wily celestial would never hunt except in the company of Gust himself.    One day Kai Shang spoke secretly with Momulla the Maori, pouring into  the brown ear of his companion the suspicions which he harboured  concerning the Swede.  Momulla was for going immediately and running a  long knife through the heart of the traitor.    It is true that Kai Shang had no other evidence than the natural  cunning of his own knavish soul--but he imagined in the intentions of  Gust what he himself would have been glad to accomplish had the means  lain at hand.    But he dared not let Momulla slay the Swede, upon whom they depended to  guide them to their destination.   They decided, however, that it would  do no harm to attempt to frighten Gust into acceding to their demands,  and with this purpose in mind the Maori sought out the self-constituted  commander of the party.    When he broached the subject of immediate departure Gust again raised  his former objection--that the warship might very probably be  patrolling the sea directly in their southern path, waiting for them to  make the attempt to reach other waters.    Momulla scoffed at the fears of his fellow, pointing out that as no one  aboard any warship knew of their mutiny there could be no reason why  they should be suspected.    
