dangerous a journey or not was a question.    Fear might drive him to the attempt now that he knew the manner of  horrible pack that was upon his trail, and that Tarzan of the Apes was  following him to wreak upon him the vengeance that he deserved.    At last the ape-man determined to continue toward the northeast in the  general direction of German East Africa until he came upon natives from  whom he might gain information as to Rokoff's whereabouts.    The second day following the cessation of the rain Tarzan came upon a  native village the inhabitants of which fled into the bush the instant  their eyes fell upon him.  Tarzan, not to be thwarted in any such  manner as this, pursued them, and after a brief chase caught up with a  young warrior.  The fellow was so badly frightened that he was unable  to defend himself, dropping his weapons and falling upon the ground,  wide-eyed and screaming as he gazed on his captor.    It was with considerable difficulty that the ape-man quieted the  fellow's fears sufficiently to obtain a coherent statement from him as  to the cause of his uncalled-for terror.    From him Tarzan learned, by dint of much coaxing, that a party of  whites had passed through the village several days before.  These men  had told them of a terrible white devil that pursued them, warning the  natives against it and the frightful pack of demons that accompanied it.    The black had recognized Tarzan as the white devil from the  descriptions given by the whites and their black servants.   Behind him  he had expected to see a horde of demons disguised as apes and panthers.    In this Tarzan saw the cunning hand of Rokoff.  The Russian was  attempting to make travel as difficult as possible for him by turning  the natives against him in superstitious fear.    The native further told Tarzan that the white man who had led the  recent expedition had promised them a fabulous reward if they would  kill the white devil.  This they had fully intended doing should the  opportunity present itself; but the moment they had seen Tarzan their 
