Anderssen took to the river, purchasing a canoe from a chief whose  village lay a short distance from the Ugambi upon the bank of a  tributary.    Thereafter the little party of fugitives fled up the broad Ugambi, and  so rapid had their flight become that they no longer received word of  their pursuers.  At the end of canoe navigation upon the river, they  abandoned their canoe and took to the jungle.  Here progress became at  once arduous, slow, and dangerous.    The second day after leaving the Ugambi the baby fell ill with fever.  Anderssen knew what the outcome must be, but he had not the heart to  tell Jane Clayton the truth, for he had seen that the young woman had  come to love the child almost as passionately as though it had been her  own flesh and blood.    As the baby's condition precluded farther advance, Anderssen withdrew a  little from the main trail he had been following and built a camp in a  natural clearing on the bank of a little river.    Here Jane devoted her every moment to caring for the tiny sufferer, and  as though her sorrow and anxiety were not all that she could bear, a  further blow came with the sudden announcement of one of the Mosula  porters who had been foraging in the jungle adjacent that Rokoff and  his party were camped quite close to them, and were evidently upon  their trail to this little nook which all had thought so excellent a  hiding-place.    This information could mean but one thing, and that they must break  camp and fly onward regardless of the baby's condition.   Jane Clayton  knew the traits of the Russian well enough to be positive that he would  separate her from the child the moment that he recaptured them, and she  knew that separation would mean the immediate death of the baby.    As they stumbled forward through the tangled vegetation along an old  and almost overgrown game trail the Mosula porters deserted them one by  one.    The men had been staunch enough in their devotion and loyalty as long  as they were in no danger of being overtaken by the Russian and his 
