hear every word they uttered. Again the abbé had been obliged to swallow  a draught of water to calm the emotions that threatened to overpower  him. When he had sufficiently recovered himself, he said, “It appears,  then, that the miserable old man you were telling me of was forsaken by  everyone. Surely, had not such been the case, he would not have perished  by so dreadful a death.”    “Why, he was not altogether forsaken,” continued Caderousse, “for  Mercédès the Catalan and Monsieur Morrel were very kind to him; but  somehow the poor old man had contracted a profound hatred for Fernand--  the very person,” added Caderousse with a bitter smile, “that you named  just now as being one of Dantès’ faithful and attached friends.”    “And was he not so?” asked the abbé.    “Gaspard, Gaspard!” murmured the woman, from her seat on the stairs,  “mind what you are saying!” Caderousse made no reply to these words,  though evidently irritated and annoyed by the interruption, but,  addressing the abbé, said, “Can a man be faithful to another whose wife  he covets and desires for himself? But Dantès was so honorable and true  in his own nature, that he believed everybody’s professions of  friendship. Poor Edmond, he was cruelly deceived; but it was fortunate  that he never knew, or he might have found it more difficult, when on  his deathbed, to pardon his enemies. And, whatever people may say,”  continued Caderousse, in his native language, which was not altogether  devoid of rude poetry, “I cannot help being more frightened at the idea  of the malediction of the dead than the hatred of the living.”    “Imbecile!” exclaimed La Carconte.    “Do you, then, know in what manner Fernand injured Dantès?” inquired the  abbé of Caderousse.    “Do I? No one better.”    “Speak out then, say what it was!”    “Gaspard!” cried La Carconte, “do as you will; you are master--but if  you take my advice you’ll hold your tongue.”    “Well, wife,” replied Caderousse, “I don’t know but what you’re right!”    “So you will say nothing?” asked the abbé.    “Why, what good would it do?” asked Caderousse. “If the poor lad were 
