and what were those events of his early life--a life as marvellous as  unknown--that have tinctured his succeeding years with so dark and  gloomy a misanthropy? Certainly these are questions that, in your place,  I should like to have answered.”    “My dear Franz,” replied Albert, “when, upon receipt of my letter, you  found the necessity of asking the count’s assistance, you promptly went  to him, saying, ‘My friend Albert de Morcerf is in danger; help me to  deliver him.’ Was not that nearly what you said?”      “It was.”    “Well, then, did he ask you, ‘Who is M. Albert de Morcerf? how does he  come by his name--his fortune? what are his means of existence? what is  his birthplace? of what country is he a native?’ Tell me, did he put all  these questions to you?”    “I confess he asked me none.”    “No; he merely came and freed me from the hands of Signor Vampa, where,  I can assure you, in spite of all my outward appearance of ease and  unconcern, I did not very particularly care to remain. Now, then, Franz,  when, for services so promptly and unhesitatingly rendered, he but asks  me in return to do for him what is done daily for any Russian prince or  Italian nobleman who may pass through Paris--merely to introduce him  into society--would you have me refuse? My good fellow, you must have  lost your senses to think it possible I could act with such cold-blooded  policy.” And this time it must be confessed that, contrary to the usual  state of affairs in discussions between the young men, the effective  arguments were all on Albert’s side.    “Well,” said Franz with a sigh, “do as you please my dear viscount, for  your arguments are beyond my powers of refutation. Still, in spite of  all, you must admit that this Count of Monte Cristo is a most singular  personage.”    “He is a philanthropist,” answered the other; “and no doubt his motive  in visiting Paris is to compete for the Monthyon prize, given, as you  are aware, to whoever shall be proved to have most materially advanced  the interests of virtue and humanity. If my vote and interest can obtain 
