“No excellency, I do not recollect telling you that.”    “I thought you did; I must have been mistaken.”    “No, you were not, for it was in reality a little boy. But your  excellency wished to know two things; what was the second?”    “The second was the crime of which you were accused when you asked for a  confessor, and the Abbé Busoni came to visit you at your request in the  prison at Nîmes.”    “The story will be very long, excellency.”    “What matter? you know I take but little sleep, and I do not suppose you  are very much inclined for it either.” Bertuccio bowed, and resumed his  story.    “Partly to drown the recollections of the past that haunted me, partly  to supply the wants of the poor widow, I eagerly returned to my trade of  smuggler, which had become more easy since that relaxation of the laws  which always follows a revolution. The southern districts were ill-  watched in particular, in consequence of the disturbances that were  perpetually breaking out in Avignon, Nîmes, or Uzès. We profited by this  respite on the part of the government to make friends everywhere. Since  my brother’s assassination in the streets of Nîmes, I had never entered  the town; the result was that the innkeeper with whom we were connected,  seeing that we would no longer come to him, was forced to come to us,  and had established a branch to his inn, on the road from Bellegarde to  Beaucaire, at the sign of the Pont du Gard. We had thus, at Aigues-  Mortes, Martigues, or Bouc, a dozen places where we left our goods, and  where, in case of necessity, we concealed ourselves from the gendarmes  and custom-house officers. Smuggling is a profitable trade, when a  certain degree of vigor and intelligence is employed; as for myself,  brought up in the mountains, I had a double motive for fearing the  gendarmes and custom-house officers, as my appearance before the judges  would cause an inquiry, and an inquiry always looks back into the past.  And in my past life they might find something far more grave than the  selling of smuggled cigars, or barrels of brandy without a permit. So, 
