was based upon sound and excellent principles. Then the king, who,  without our suspecting it, had overheard our conversation, interrupted  us by saying, ‘Villefort’--observe that the king did not pronounce the  word Noirtier, but, on the contrary, placed considerable emphasis on  that of Villefort--‘Villefort,’ said his majesty, ‘is a young man of  great judgment and discretion, who will be sure to make a figure in his  profession; I like him much, and it gave me great pleasure to hear that  he was about to become the son-in-law of the Marquis and Marquise de  Saint-Méran. I should myself have recommended the match, had not the  noble marquis anticipated my wishes by requesting my consent to it.’”    “Is it possible the king could have condescended so far as to express  himself so favorably of me?” asked the enraptured Villefort.    “I give you his very words; and if the marquis chooses to be candid, he  will confess that they perfectly agree with what his majesty said to  him, when he went six months ago to consult him upon the subject of your  espousing his daughter.”      “That is true,” answered the marquis.    “How much do I owe this gracious prince! What is there I would not do to  evince my earnest gratitude!”    “That is right,” cried the marquise. “I love to see you thus. Now, then,  were a conspirator to fall into your hands, he would be most welcome.”    “For my part, dear mother,” interposed Renée, “I trust your wishes will  not prosper, and that Providence will only permit petty offenders, poor  debtors, and miserable cheats to fall into M. de Villefort’s hands,--  then I shall be contented.”    “Just the same as though you prayed that a physician might only be  called upon to prescribe for headaches, measles, and the stings of  wasps, or any other slight affection of the epidermis. If you wish to  see me the king’s attorney, you must desire for me some of those violent  and dangerous diseases from the cure of which so much honor redounds to  the physician.”    At this moment, and as though the utterance of Villefort’s wish had 
