the splendor of the apartment in which he found himself.    The entire chamber was lined with crimson brocade, worked with flowers  of gold. In a recess was a kind of divan, surmounted with a stand of  Arabian swords in silver scabbards, and the handles resplendent with  gems; from the ceiling hung a lamp of Venetian glass, of beautiful shape  and color, while the feet rested on a Turkey carpet, in which they sunk  to the instep; tapestry hung before the door by which Franz had entered,  and also in front of another door, leading into a second apartment which  seemed to be brilliantly illuminated.    The host gave Franz time to recover from his surprise, and, moreover,  returned look for look, not even taking his eyes off him.    “Sir,” he said, after a pause, “a thousand excuses for the precaution  taken in your introduction hither; but as, during the greater portion of  the year, this island is deserted, if the secret of this abode were  discovered. I should doubtless, find on my return my temporary  retirement in a state of great disorder, which would be exceedingly  annoying, not for the loss it occasioned me, but because I should not  have the certainty I now possess of separating myself from all the rest  of mankind at pleasure. Let me now endeavor to make you forget this  temporary unpleasantness, and offer you what no doubt you did not expect  to find here--that is to say, a tolerable supper and pretty comfortable  beds.”    “_Ma foi_, my dear sir,” replied Franz, “make no apologies. I have  always observed that they bandage people’s eyes who penetrate enchanted  palaces, for instance, those of Raoul in the _Huguenots_, and really I  have nothing to complain of, for what I see makes me think of the  wonders of the _Arabian Nights_.”      “Alas! I may say with Lucullus, if I could have anticipated the honor of  your visit, I would have prepared for it. But such as is my hermitage,  it is at your disposal; such as is my supper, it is yours to share, if  you will. Ali, is the supper ready?”    At this moment the tapestry moved aside, and a Nubian, black as ebony, 
