smoking his cigar at the entrance of the garden, when the count’s  carriage stopped at the gate.    Cocles opened the gate, and Baptistin, springing from the box, inquired  whether Monsieur and Madame Herbault and Monsieur Maximilian Morrel  would see his excellency the Count of Monte Cristo. “The Count of Monte  Cristo?” cried Morrel, throwing away his cigar and hastening to the  carriage; “I should think we would see him. Ah, a thousand thanks,  count, for not having forgotten your promise.” And the young officer  shook the count’s hand so warmly, that Monte Cristo could not be  mistaken as to the sincerity of his joy, and he saw that he had been  expected with impatience, and was received with pleasure. “Come, come,”  said Maximilian, “I will serve as your guide; such a man as you are  ought not to be introduced by a servant. My sister is in the garden  plucking the dead roses; my brother is reading his two papers, _la  Presse_ and _les Débats_, within six steps of her; for wherever you see  Madame Herbault, you have only to look within a circle of four yards and  you will find M. Emmanuel, and ‘reciprocally,’ as they say at the  Polytechnic School.” At the sound of their steps a young woman of twenty  to five and twenty, dressed in a silk morning gown, and busily engaged  in plucking the dead leaves off a noisette rose-tree, raised her head.  This was Julie, who had become, as the clerk of the house of Thomson &  French had predicted, Madame Emmanuel Herbault. She uttered a cry of  surprise at the sight of a stranger, and Maximilian began to laugh.  “Don’t disturb yourself, Julie,” said he. “The count has only been two  or three days in Paris, but he already knows what a fashionable woman of  the Marais is, and if he does not, you will show him.”    “Ah, monsieur,” returned Julie, “it is treason in my brother to bring  you thus, but he never has any regard for his poor sister. Penelon,  Penelon!” An old man, who was digging busily at one of the beds, stuck  his spade in the earth, and approached, cap in hand, striving to conceal 
