privations.”    “However,” said Madame de Villefort, returning to the one idea which  incessantly occupied her mind, “perhaps it would be better to explain  this unlucky affair to M. d’Epinay, in order to give him the opportunity  of himself renouncing his claim to the hand of Mademoiselle de  Villefort.”    “Ah, that would be a great pity,” said Villefort.    “A great pity,” said Monte Cristo.    “Undoubtedly,” said Villefort, moderating the tones of his voice, “a  marriage once concerted and then broken off, throws a sort of discredit  on a young lady; then again, the old reports, which I was so anxious to  put an end to, will instantly gain ground. No, it will all go well; M.  d’Epinay, if he is an honorable man, will consider himself more than  ever pledged to Mademoiselle de Villefort, unless he were actuated by a  decided feeling of avarice, but that is impossible.”    “I agree with M. de Villefort,” said Monte Cristo, fixing his eyes on  Madame de Villefort; “and if I were sufficiently intimate with him to  allow of giving my advice, I would persuade him, since I have been told  M. d’Epinay is coming back, to settle this affair at once beyond all  possibility of revocation. I will answer for the success of a project  which will reflect so much honor on M. de Villefort.” The procureur  arose, delighted with the proposition, but his wife slightly changed  color. “Well, that is all that I wanted, and I will be guided by a  counsellor such as you are,” said he, extending his hand to Monte  Cristo. “Therefore let everyone here look upon what has passed today as  if it had not happened, and as though we had never thought of such a  thing as a change in our original plans.”    “Sir,” said the count, “the world, unjust as it is, will be pleased with  your resolution; your friends will be proud of you, and M. d’Epinay,  even if he took Mademoiselle de Villefort without any dowry, which he  will not do, would be delighted with the idea of entering a family which  could make such sacrifices in order to keep a promise and fulfil a 
