  “Are you going?”    “Really, that is a good idea!--two hours have I been boring you to death  with my company, and then you, with the greatest politeness, ask me if I  am going. Indeed, count, you are the most polished man in the world. And  your servants, too, how very well behaved they are; there is quite a  style about them. Monsieur Baptistin especially; I could never get such  a man as that. My servants seem to imitate those you sometimes see in a  play, who, because they have only a word or two to say, aquit themselves  in the most awkward manner possible. Therefore, if you part with M.  Baptistin, give me the refusal of him.”    “By all means.”    “That is not all; give my compliments to your illustrious Luccanese,  Cavalcante of the Cavalcanti; and if by any chance he should be wishing  to establish his son, find him a wife very rich, very noble on her  mother’s side at least, and a baroness in right of her father, I will  help you in the search.”    “Ah, ha; you will do as much as that, will you?”    “Yes.”    “Well, really, nothing is certain in this world.”    “Oh, count, what a service you might render me! I should like you a  hundred times better if, by your intervention, I could manage to remain  a bachelor, even were it only for ten years.”    “Nothing is impossible,” gravely replied Monte Cristo; and taking leave  of Albert, he returned into the house, and struck the gong three times.  Bertuccio appeared. “Monsieur Bertuccio, you understand that I intend  entertaining company on Saturday at Auteuil.” Bertuccio slightly  started. “I shall require your services to see that all be properly  arranged. It is a beautiful house, or at all events may be made so.”    “There must be a good deal done before it can deserve that title, your  excellency, for the tapestried hangings are very old.”    “Let them all be taken away and changed, then, with the exception of the  sleeping-chamber which is hung with red damask; you will leave that  exactly as it is.” Bertuccio bowed. “You will not touch the garden 
