Maximilian; and now are you satisfied with your betrothal?” said the  young girl sorrowfully.    “My adored Valentine, words cannot express one half of my satisfaction.”  Valentine had approached, or rather, had placed her lips so near the  fence, that they nearly touched those of Morrel, which were pressed  against the other side of the cold and inexorable barrier. “Adieu, then,  till we meet again,” said Valentine, tearing herself away. “I shall hear  from you?”    “Yes.”    “Thanks, thanks, dear love, adieu!” The sound of a kiss was heard, and  Valentine fled through the avenue. Morrel listened to catch the last  sound of her dress brushing the branches, and of her footstep on the  gravel, then raised his eyes with an ineffable smile of thankfulness to  heaven for being permitted to be thus loved, and then also disappeared.  The young man returned home and waited all the evening and all the next  day without getting any message. It was only on the following day, at  about ten o’clock in the morning, as he was starting to call on M.  Deschamps, the notary, that he received from the postman a small billet,  which he knew to be from Valentine, although he had not before seen her  writing. It was to this effect:--    “Tears, entreaties, prayers, have availed me nothing. Yesterday, for two  hours, I was at the church of Saint-Phillippe du Roule, and for two  hours I prayed most fervently. Heaven is as inflexible as man, and the  signature of the contract is fixed for this evening at nine o’clock. I  have but one promise and but one heart to give; that promise is pledged  to you, that heart is also yours. This evening, then, at a quarter to  nine at the gate.    “Your betrothed,    “Valentine de Villefort.”    “P.S.--My poor grandmother gets worse and worse; yesterday her fever  amounted to delirium; today her delirium is almost madness. You will be  very kind to me, will you not, Morrel, to make me forget my sorrow in  leaving her thus? I think it is kept a secret from grandpapa Noirtier,  that the contract is to be signed this evening.” 
