“That’s well,” said Monte Cristo; “I remain here a day or two--arrange  accordingly.” As Bertuccio was leaving the room to give the requisite  orders, Baptistin opened the door: he held a letter on a silver waiter.    “What are you doing here?” asked the count, seeing him covered with  dust; “I did not send for you, I think?”    Baptistin, without answering, approached the count, and presented the  letter. “Important and urgent,” said he. The count opened the letter,  and read:--    “M. de Monte Cristo is apprised that this night a man will enter his  house in the Champs-Élysées with the intention of carrying off some  papers supposed to be in the secretary desk in the dressing-room. The  count’s well-known courage will render unnecessary the aid of the  police, whose interference might seriously affect him who sends this  advice. The count, by any opening from the bedroom, or by concealing  himself in the dressing-room, would be able to defend his property  himself. Many attendants or apparent precautions would prevent the  villain from the attempt, and M. de Monte Cristo would lose the  opportunity of discovering an enemy whom chance has revealed to him who  now sends this warning to the count,--a warning he might not be able to  send another time, if this first attempt should fail and another be  made.”    The count’s first idea was that this was an artifice--a gross deception,  to draw his attention from a minor danger in order to expose him to a  greater. He was on the point of sending the letter to the commissary of  police, notwithstanding the advice of his anonymous friend, or perhaps  because of that advice, when suddenly the idea occurred to him that it  might be some personal enemy, whom he alone should recognize and over  whom, if such were the case, he alone would gain any advantage, as  Fiesco [*] had done over the Moor who would have killed him. We know the  Count’s vigorous and daring mind, denying anything to be impossible,  with that energy which marks the great man. From his past life, from his  resolution to shrink from nothing, the count had acquired an  inconceivable relish for the contests in which he had engaged, sometimes 
