  “I do not recollect it,” said Haydée.    “The noise increased; steps were heard approaching nearer and nearer;  they were descending the steps leading to the cavern. Selim made ready  his lance. Soon a figure appeared in the gray twilight at the entrance  of the cave, formed by the reflection of the few rays of daylight which  had found their way into this gloomy retreat. ‘Who are you?’ cried  Selim. ‘But whoever you may be, I charge you not to advance another  step.’--‘Long live the emperor!’ said the figure. ‘He grants a full  pardon to the Vizier Ali, and not only gives him his life, but restores  to him his fortune and his possessions.’ My mother uttered a cry of joy,  and clasped me to her bosom. ‘Stop,’ said Selim, seeing that she was  about to go out; ‘you see I have not yet received the ring,’--‘True,’  said my mother. And she fell on her knees, at the same time holding me  up towards heaven, as if she desired, while praying to God in my behalf,  to raise me actually to his presence.”    And for the second time Haydée stopped, overcome by such violent emotion  that the perspiration stood upon her pale brow, and her stifled voice  seemed hardly able to find utterance, so parched and dry were her throat  and lips. Monte Cristo poured a little iced water into a glass, and  presented it to her, saying with a mildness in which was also a shade of  command,--“Courage.”      Haydée dried her eyes, and continued: “By this time our eyes, habituated  to the darkness, had recognized the messenger of the pasha,--it was a  friend. Selim had also recognized him, but the brave young man only  acknowledged one duty, which was to obey. ‘In whose name do you come?’  said he to him. ‘I come in the name of our master, Ali Tepelini.’--‘If  you come from Ali himself,’ said Selim, ‘you know what you were charged  to remit to me?’--‘Yes,’ said the messenger, ‘and I bring you his ring.’  At these words he raised his hand above his head, to show the token; but  it was too far off, and there was not light enough to enable Selim, 
