  “In that case,” said Andrea, “everything is all right, excepting your  refusal, which quite grieves me.”    “You must attribute it only to natural scruples under similar  circumstances.”    “Well,” said Andrea, “let it be as you wish. This evening, then, at nine  o’clock.”    “Adieu till then.” Notwithstanding a slight resistance on the part of  Monte Cristo, whose lips turned pale, but who preserved his ceremonious  smile, Andrea seized the count’s hand, pressed it, jumped into his  phaeton, and disappeared.    The four or five remaining hours before nine o’clock arrived, Andrea  employed in riding, paying visits,--designed to induce those of whom he  had spoken to appear at the banker’s in their gayest equipages,--  dazzling them by promises of shares in schemes which have since turned  every brain, and in which Danglars was just taking the initiative. In  fact, at half-past eight in the evening the grand salon, the gallery  adjoining, and the three other drawing-rooms on the same floor, were  filled with a perfumed crowd, who sympathized but little in the event,  but who all participated in that love of being present wherever there is  anything fresh to be seen. An Academician would say that the  entertainments of the fashionable world are collections of flowers which  attract inconstant butterflies, famished bees, and buzzing drones.      No one could deny that the rooms were splendidly illuminated; the light  streamed forth on the gilt mouldings and the silk hangings; and all the  bad taste of decorations, which had only their richness to boast of,  shone in its splendor. Mademoiselle Eugénie was dressed with elegant  simplicity in a figured white silk dress, and a white rose half  concealed in her jet black hair was her only ornament, unaccompanied by  a single jewel. Her eyes, however, betrayed that perfect confidence  which contradicted the girlish simplicity of this modest attire. Madame  Danglars was chatting at a short distance with Debray, Beauchamp, and  Château-Renaud.    Debray was admitted to the house for this grand ceremony, but on the  same plane with everyone else, and without any particular privilege. M.  Danglars, surrounded by deputies and men connected with the revenue, was 
