  “Fernand, do you mean?” replied Monte Cristo, with bitter irony; “since  we are recalling names, let us remember them all.” Monte Cristo had  pronounced the name of Fernand with such an expression of hatred that  Mercédès felt a thrill of horror run through every vein. “You see,  Edmond, I am not mistaken, and have cause to say, ‘Spare my son!’”    “And who told you, madame, that I have any hostile intentions against  your son?”    “No one, in truth; but a mother has twofold sight. I guessed all; I  followed him this evening to the Opera, and, concealed in a parquet box,  have seen all.”    “If you have seen all, madame, you know that the son of Fernand has  publicly insulted me,” said Monte Cristo with awful calmness.    “Oh, for pity’s sake!”    “You have seen that he would have thrown his glove in my face if Morrel,  one of my friends, had not stopped him.”    “Listen to me, my son has also guessed who you are,--he attributes his  father’s misfortunes to you.”    “Madame, you are mistaken, they are not misfortunes,--it is a  punishment. It is not I who strike M. de Morcerf; it is Providence which  punishes him.”    “And why do you represent Providence?” cried Mercédès. “Why do you  remember when it forgets? What are Yanina and its vizier to you, Edmond?  What injury has Fernand Mondego done you in betraying Ali Tepelini?”    “Ah, madame,” replied Monte Cristo, “all this is an affair between the  French captain and the daughter of Vasiliki. It does not concern me, you  are right; and if I have sworn to revenge myself, it is not on the  French captain, or the Count of Morcerf, but on the fisherman Fernand,  the husband of Mercédès the Catalane.”    “Ah, sir!” cried the countess, “how terrible a vengeance for a fault  which fatality made me commit!--for I am the only culprit, Edmond, and  if you owe revenge to anyone, it is to me, who had not fortitude to bear  your absence and my solitude.”      “But,” exclaimed Monte Cristo, “why was I absent? And why were you 
