by the side of its mother. He picked up the paper, and, recognizing his  wife’s writing, ran his eyes rapidly over its contents; it ran as  follows:--    “You know that I was a good mother, since it was for my son’s sake I  became criminal. A good mother cannot depart without her son.”      Villefort could not believe his eyes,--he could not believe his reason;  he dragged himself towards the child’s body, and examined it as a  lioness contemplates its dead cub. Then a piercing cry escaped from his  breast, and he cried,    “Still the hand of God.”    The presence of the two victims alarmed him; he could not bear solitude  shared only by two corpses. Until then he had been sustained by rage, by  his strength of mind, by despair, by the supreme agony which led the  Titans to scale the heavens, and Ajax to defy the gods. He now arose,  his head bowed beneath the weight of grief, and, shaking his damp,  dishevelled hair, he who had never felt compassion for anyone determined  to seek his father, that he might have someone to whom he could relate  his misfortunes,--some one by whose side he might weep.    He descended the little staircase with which we are acquainted, and  entered Noirtier’s room. The old man appeared to be listening  attentively and as affectionately as his infirmities would allow to the  Abbé Busoni, who looked cold and calm, as usual. Villefort, perceiving  the abbé, passed his hand across his brow.    He recollected the call he had made upon him after the dinner at  Auteuil, and then the visit the abbé had himself paid to his house on  the day of Valentine’s death. “You here, sir!” he exclaimed; “do you,  then, never appear but to act as an escort to death?”    Busoni turned around, and, perceiving the excitement depicted on the  magistrate’s face, the savage lustre of his eyes, he understood that the  revelation had been made at the assizes; but beyond this he was  ignorant.    “I came to pray over the body of your daughter.”    “And now why are you here?” 
