 “Exactly so,” said d’Artagnan; and nodding to Planchet, he went out.    M Bonacieux was at his door. D’Artagnan’s intention was to go out  without speaking to the worthy mercer; but the latter made so polite and  friendly a salutation that his tenant felt obliged, not only to stop,  but to enter into conversation with him.    Besides, how is it possible to avoid a little condescension toward a  husband whose pretty wife has appointed a meeting with you that same  evening at St. Cloud, opposite D’Estrees’s pavilion? D’Artagnan  approached him with the most amiable air he could assume.    The conversation naturally fell upon the incarceration of the poor man.  M. Bonacieux, who was ignorant that d’Artagnan had overheard his  conversation with the stranger of Meung, related to his young tenant the  persecutions of that monster, M. de Laffemas, whom he never ceased to  designate, during his account, by the title of the “cardinal’s  executioner,” and expatiated at great length upon the Bastille, the  bolts, the wickets, the dungeons, the gratings, the instruments of  torture.    D’Artagnan listened to him with exemplary complaisance, and when he had  finished said, “And Madame Bonacieux, do you know who carried her  off?--For I do not forget that I owe to that unpleasant circumstance the  good fortune of having made your acquaintance.”    “Ah!” said Bonacieux, “they took good care not to tell me that; and my  wife, on her part, has sworn to me by all that’s sacred that she does  not know. But you,” continued M. Bonacieux, in a tine of perfect good  fellowship, “what has become of you all these days? I have not seen you  nor your friends, and I don’t think you could gather all that dust that  I saw Planchet brush off your boots yesterday from the pavement of  Paris.”    “You are right, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux, my friends and I have been  on a little journey.”    “Far from here?”    “Oh, Lord, no! About forty leagues only. We went to take Monsieur Athos  to the waters of Forges, where my friends still remain.”    “And you have returned, have you not?” replied M. Bonacieux, giving to 
