 swords, and breaking of furniture. A moment after, those who, surprised  by this tumult, had gone to their windows to learn the cause of it, saw  the door open, and four men, clothed in black, not COME out of it, but  FLY, like so many frightened crows, leaving on the ground and on the  corners of the furniture, feathers from their wings; that is to say,  patches of their clothes and fragments of their cloaks.    D’Artagnan was conqueror--without much effort, it must be confessed, for  only one of the officers was armed, and even he defended himself for  form’s sake. It is true that the three others had endeavored to knock  the young man down with chairs, stools, and crockery; but two or three  scratches made by the Gascon’s blade terrified them. Ten minutes  sufficed for their defeat, and d’Artagnan remained master of the field  of battle.    The neighbors who had opened their windows, with the coolness peculiar  to the inhabitants of Paris in these times of perpetual riots and  disturbances, closed them again as soon as they saw the four men in  black flee--their instinct telling them that for the time all was over.  Besides, it began to grow late, and then, as today, people went to bed  early in the quarter of the Luxembourg.    On being left alone with Mme. Bonacieux, d’Artagnan turned toward her;  the poor woman reclined where she had been left, half-fainting upon an  armchair. D’Artagnan examined her with a rapid glance.    She was a charming woman of twenty-five or twenty-six years, with dark  hair, blue eyes, and a nose slightly turned up, admirable teeth, and a  complexion marbled with rose and opal. There, however, ended the signs  which might have confounded her with a lady of rank. The hands were  white, but without delicacy; the feet did not bespeak the woman of  quality. Happily, d’Artagnan was not yet acquainted with such niceties.    While d’Artagnan was examining Mme. Bonacieux, and was, as we have said,  close to her, he saw on the ground a fine cambric handkerchief, which he  picked up, as was his habit, and at the corner of which he recognized  
