   “You know not the subject of their conversation?”    “He gave her a box, told her not to open it except in London.”    “Was this woman English?”    “He called her Milady.”    “It is he; it must be he!” murmured Treville. “I believed him still at  Brussels.”    “Oh, sir, if you know who this man is,” cried d’Artagnan, “tell me who  he is, and whence he is. I will then release you from all your  promises--even that of procuring my admission into the Musketeers; for  before everything, I wish to avenge myself.”    “Beware, young man!” cried Treville. “If you see him coming on one side  of the street, pass by on the other. Do not cast yourself against such a  rock; he would break you like glass.”    “That will not prevent me,” replied d’Artagnan, “if ever I find him.”    “In the meantime,” said Treville, “seek him not--if I have a right to  advise you.”    All at once the captain stopped, as if struck by a sudden suspicion.  This great hatred which the young traveler manifested so loudly for this  man, who--a rather improbable thing--had stolen his father’s letter from  him--was there not some perfidy concealed under this hatred? Might not  this young man be sent by his Eminence? Might he not have come for the  purpose of laying a snare for him? This pretended d’Artagnan--was he not  an emissary of the cardinal, whom the cardinal sought to introduce into  Treville’s house, to place near him, to win his confidence, and  afterward to ruin him as had been done in a thousand other instances? He  fixed his eyes upon d’Artagnan even more earnestly than before. He was  moderately reassured, however, by the aspect of that countenance, full  of astute intelligence and affected humility. “I know he is a Gascon,”  reflected he, “but he may be one for the cardinal as well as for me. Let  us try him.”    “My friend,” said he, slowly, “I wish, as the son of an ancient  friend--for I consider this story of the lost letter perfectly true--I  wish, I say, in order to repair the coldness you may have remarked in my 
