being in constant fear of being forced from that position, I am armed to  the teeth.”    “And yet,” said d’Artagnan, laughing, “it appears to me that from time  to time you must make SORTIES.” And he again pointed to the bottles and  the stewpans.    “Not I, unfortunately!” said Porthos. “This miserable strain confines me  to my bed; but Mousqueton forages, and brings in provisions. Friend  Mousqueton, you see that we have a reinforcement, and we must have an  increase of supplies.”    “Mousqueton,” said d’Artagnan, “you must render me a service.”    “What, monsieur?”    “You must give your recipe to Planchet. I may be besieged in my turn,  and I shall not be sorry for him to be able to let me enjoy the same  advantages with which you gratify your master.”    “Lord, monsieur! There is nothing more easy,” said Mousqueton, with a  modest air. “One only needs to be sharp, that’s all. I was brought up in  the country, and my father in his leisure time was something of a  poacher.”    “And what did he do the rest of his time?”    “Monsieur, he carried on a trade which I have always thought  satisfactory.”    “Which?”    “As it was a time of war between the Catholics and the Huguenots, and as  he saw the Catholics exterminate the Huguenots and the Huguenots  exterminate the Catholics--all in the name of religion--he adopted a  mixed belief which permitted him to be sometimes Catholic, sometimes a  Huguenot. Now, he was accustomed to walk with his fowling piece on his  shoulder, behind the hedges which border the roads, and when he saw a  Catholic coming alone, the Protestant religion immediately prevailed in  his mind. He lowered his gun in the direction of the traveler; then,  when he was within ten paces of him, he commenced a conversation which  almost always ended by the traveler’s abandoning his purse to save his  life. It goes without saying that when he saw a Huguenot coming, he felt  himself filled with such ardent Catholic zeal that he could not  understand how, a quarter of an hour before, he had been able to have 
