 One of the two Guardsmen was engaged that evening, and another the next,  so the meeting was fixed for the day after that.    D’Artagnan, on his return, sent the twelve bottles of wine to the  refreshment room of the Guards, with strict orders that great care  should be taken of it; and then, on the day appointed, as the dinner was  fixed for midday d’Artagnan sent Planchet at nine in the morning to  assist in preparing everything for the entertainment.    Planchet, very proud of being raised to the dignity of landlord, thought  he would make all ready, like an intelligent man; and with this view  called in the assistance of the lackey of one of his master’s guests,  named Fourreau, and the false soldier who had tried to kill d’Artagnan  and who, belonging to no corps, had entered into the service of  d’Artagnan, or rather of Planchet, after d’Artagnan had saved his life.    The hour of the banquet being come, the two guards arrived, took their  places, and the dishes were arranged on the table. Planchet waited,  towel on arm; Fourreau uncorked the bottles; and Brisemont, which was  the name of the convalescent, poured the wine, which was a little shaken  by its journey, carefully into decanters. Of this wine, the first bottle  being a little thick at the bottom, Brisemont poured the lees into a  glass, and d’Artagnan desired him to drink it, for the poor devil had  not yet recovered his strength.    The guests having eaten the soup, were about to lift the first glass of  wine to their lips, when all at once the cannon sounded from Fort Louis  and Fort Neuf. The Guardsmen, imagining this to be caused by some  unexpected attack, either of the besieged or the English, sprang to  their swords. D’Artagnan, not less forward than they, did likewise, and  all ran out, in order to repair to their posts.    But scarcely were they out of the room before they were made aware of  the cause of this noise. Cries of “Live the king! Live the cardinal!”  resounded on every side, and the drums were beaten in all directions.    In short, the king, impatient, as has been said, had come by forced 
