  “Thirty-five minutes after seven,” said Athos, “by which you perceive I  am five minutes faster than you.”    And bowing to all the astonished persons present, the young men took the  road to the bastion St. Gervais, followed by Grimaud, who carried the  basket, ignorant of where he was going but in the passive obedience  which Athos had taught him not even thinking of asking.    As long as they were within the circle of the camp, the four friends did  not exchange one word; besides, they were followed by the curious, who,  hearing of the wager, were anxious to know how they would come out of  it. But when once they passed the line of circumvallation and found  themselves in the open plain, d’Artagnan, who was completely ignorant of  what was going forward, thought it was time to demand an explanation.    “And now, my dear Athos,” said he, “do me the kindness to tell me where  we are going?”    “Why, you see plainly enough we are going to the bastion.”    “But what are we going to do there?”    “You know well that we go to breakfast there.”    “But why did we not breakfast at the Parpaillot?”    “Because we have very important matters to communicate to one another,  and it was impossible to talk five minutes in that inn without being  annoyed by all those importunate fellows, who keep coming in, saluting  you, and addressing you. Here at least,” said Athos, pointing to the  bastion, “they will not come and disturb us.”    “It appears to me,” said d’Artagnan, with that prudence which allied  itself in him so naturally with excessive bravery, “that we could have  found some retired place on the downs or the seashore.”    “Where we should have been seen all four conferring together, so that at  the end of a quarter of an hour the cardinal would have been informed by  his spies that we were holding a council.”    “Yes,” said Aramis, “Athos is right: ANIMADVERTUNTUR IN DESERTIS.”    “A desert would not have been amiss,” said Porthos; “but it behooved us  to find it.” 
