 from the deck; he may have traveled so fast against the wind as to have  brought on a violent catarrh. Eh, gentlemen, let us reckon upon  accidents! Life is a chaplet of little miseries which the philosopher  counts with a smile. Be philosophers, as I am, gentlemen; sit down at  the table and let us drink. Nothing makes the future look so bright as  surveying it through a glass of chambertin.”    “That’s all very well,” replied d’Artagnan; “but I am tired of fearing  when I open a fresh bottle that the wine may come from the cellar of  Milady.”    “You are very fastidious,” said Athos; “such a beautiful woman!”    “A woman of mark!” said Porthos, with his loud laugh.    Athos started, passed his hand over his brow to remove the drops of  perspiration that burst forth, and rose in his turn with a nervous  movement he could not repress.    The day, however, passed away; and the evening came on slowly, but  finally it came. The bars were filled with drinkers. Athos, who had  pocketed his share of the diamond, seldom quit the Parpaillot. He had  found in M. de Busigny, who, by the by, had given them a magnificent  dinner, a partner worthy of his company. They were playing together, as  usual, when seven o’clock sounded; the patrol was heard passing to  double the posts. At half past seven the retreat was sounded.    “We are lost,” said d’Artagnan, in the ear of Athos.    “You mean to say we have lost,” said Athos, quietly, drawing four  pistoles from his pocket and throwing them upon the table. “Come,  gentlemen,” said he, “they are beating the tattoo. Let us to bed!”    And Athos went out of the Parpaillot, followed by d’Artagnan. Aramis  came behind, giving his arm to Porthos. Aramis mumbled verses to  himself, and Porthos from time to time pulled a hair or two from his  mustache, in sign of despair.    But all at once a shadow appeared in the darkness the outline of which  was familiar to d’Artagnan, and a well-known voice said, “Monsieur, I  have brought your cloak; it is chilly this evening.” 
