  “A person who takes more interest in you than she is willing to confess  wishes to know on what day it will suit you to walk in the forest?  Tomorrow, at the Hotel Field of the Cloth of Gold, a lackey in black and  red will wait for your reply.”    “Oh!” said d’Artagnan, “this is rather warm; it appears that Milady and  I are anxious about the health of the same person. Well, Planchet, how  is the good Monsieur de Wardes? He is not dead, then?”    “No, monsieur, he is as well as a man can be with four sword wounds in  his body; for you, without question, inflicted four upon the dear  gentleman, and he is still very weak, having lost almost all his blood.  As I said, monsieur, Lubin did not know me, and told me our adventure  from one end to the other.”    “Well done, Planchet! you are the king of lackeys. Now jump onto your  horse, and let us overtake the carriage.”    This did not take long. At the end of five minutes they perceived the  carriage drawn up by the roadside; a cavalier, richly dressed, was close  to the door.    The conversation between Milady and the cavalier was so animated that  d’Artagnan stopped on the other side of the carriage without anyone but  the pretty SOUBRETTE perceiving his presence.    The conversation took place in English--a language which d’Artagnan  could not understand; but by the accent the young man plainly saw that  the beautiful Englishwoman was in a great rage. She terminated it by an  action which left no doubt as to the nature of this conversation; this  was a blow with her fan, applied with such force that the little  feminine weapon flew into a thousand pieces.    The cavalier laughed aloud, which appeared to exasperate Milady still  more.    D’Artagnan thought this was the moment to interfere. He approached the  other door, and taking off his hat respectfully, said, “Madame, will you  permit me to offer you my services? It appears to me that this cavalier  has made you very angry. Speak one word, madame, and I take upon myself 
