when this took place, rejoiced greatly at this relaxation; but the other  four cursed it heartily. D’Artagnan, in particular, had a perpetual  buzzing in his ears, which Porthos explained thus: “A very great lady  has told me that this means that somebody is talking of you somewhere.”    At length the escort passed through Paris on the twenty-third, in the  night. The king thanked M. de Treville, and permitted him to distribute  furloughs for four days, on condition that the favored parties should  not appear in any public place, under penalty of the Bastille.    The first four furloughs granted, as may be imagined, were to our four  friends. Still further, Athos obtained of M. de Treville six days  instead of four, and introduced into these six days two more nights--for  they set out on the twenty-fourth at five o’clock in the evening, and as  a further kindness M. de Treville post-dated the leave to the morning of  the twenty-fifth.    “Good Lord!” said d’Artagnan, who, as we have often said, never stumbled  at anything. “It appears to me that we are making a great trouble of a  very simple thing. In two days, and by using up two or three horses  (that’s nothing; I have plenty of money), I am at Bethune. I present my  letter from the queen to the superior, and I bring back the dear  treasure I go to seek--not into Lorraine, not into Belgium, but to  Paris, where she will be much better concealed, particularly while the  cardinal is at La Rochelle. Well, once returned from the country, half  by the protection of her cousin, half through what we have personally  done for her, we shall obtain from the queen what we desire. Remain,  then, where you are, and do not exhaust yourselves with useless fatigue.  Myself and Planchet are all that such a simple expedition requires.”    To this Athos replied quietly: “We also have money left--for I have not  yet drunk all my share of the diamond, and Porthos and Aramis have not  eaten all theirs. We can therefore use up four horses as well as one.  But consider, d’Artagnan,” added he, in a tone so solemn that it made 
