   “Make sure of it, and if they want it, have them burnished up. Which is  my best cavalry horse?”    “Vulcan.”    “And the best hack?”    “Bayard.”    “What horse dost thou choose for thyself?”    “I like Rustaud, my lord; a good animal, whose paces suit me.”    “Strong, thinkest thou?”    “Half Norman, half Mecklenburger; will go night and day.”    “That will do for us. See to these horses. Polish up or make some one  else polish my arms. Then take pistols with thee and a hunting-knife.”    “Are we then going to travel, my lord?” asked Mousqueton, rather uneasy.    “Something better still, Mouston.”    “An expedition, sir?” asked the steward, whose roses began to change  into lilies.    “We are going to return to the service, Mouston,” replied Porthos, still  trying to restore his mustache to the military curl it had long lost.    “Into the service--the king’s service?” Mousqueton trembled; even his  fat, smooth cheeks shook as he spoke, and he looked at D’Artagnan with  an air of reproach; he staggered, and his voice was almost choked.    “Yes and no. We shall serve in a campaign, seek out all sorts of  adventures--return, in short, to our former life.”    These last words fell on Mousqueton like a thunderbolt. It was those  very terrible old days that made the present so excessively delightful,  and the blow was so great he rushed out, overcome, and forgot to shut  the door.    The two friends remained alone to speak of the future and to build  castles in the air. The good wine which Mousqueton had placed before  them traced out in glowing drops to D’Artagnan a fine perspective,  shining with quadruples and pistoles, and showed to Porthos a blue  ribbon and a ducal mantle; they were, in fact, asleep on the table when  the servants came to light them to their bed.    Mousqueton was, however, somewhat consoled by D’Artagnan, who the next  day told him that in all probability war would always be carried on in  the heart of Paris and within reach of the Chateau du Vallon, which was 
