  “There’s ten o’clock striking at Greenwich.”    Groslow, then, having given the sailor on duty an order to be on the  watch with more than usual vigilance, went down into the longboat and  soon reached Greenwich. The wind was chilly and the jetty was deserted,  as he approached it; but he had no sooner landed than he heard a noise  of horses galloping upon the paved road.    These horsemen were our friends, or rather, an avant garde, composed of  D’Artagnan and Athos. As soon as they arrived at the spot where Groslow  stood they stopped, as if guessing that he was the man they wanted.  Athos alighted and calmly opened the handkerchief tied at each corner,  whilst D’Artagnan, ever cautious, remained on horseback, one hand upon  his pistol, leaning forward watchfully.    On seeing the appointed signal, Groslow, who had at first crept behind  one of the cannons planted on that spot, walked straight up to the  gentlemen. He was so well wrapped up in his cloak that it would have  been impossible to see his face even if the night had not been so dark  as to render precaution superfluous; nevertheless, the keen glance of  Athos perceived at once it was not Rogers who stood before them.    “What do you want with us?” he asked of Groslow.    “I wish to inform you, my lord,” replied Groslow, with an Irish accent,  feigned of course, “that if you are looking for Captain Rogers you will  not find him. He fell down this morning and broke his leg. But I’m his  cousin; he told me everything and desired me to watch instead of him,  and in his place to conduct, wherever they wished to go, the gentlemen  who should bring me a handkerchief tied at each corner, like that one  which you hold and one which I have in my pocket.”    And he drew out the handkerchief.    “Was that all he said?” inquired Athos.    “No, my lord; he said you had engaged to pay seventy pounds if I landed  you safe and sound at Boulogne or any other port you choose in France.”    “What do you think of all this?” said Athos, in a low tone to 
