gone out, will you not?”    “Yes, my lord,” he replied. Then, turning toward Porthos, “The devil!”  said he, “this has a bad look. I dislike these quarrels among men of the  church.”    Gondy withdrew, distributing benedictions on his way, and finding a  malicious satisfaction in causing the adherents of his foes to prostrate  themselves at his feet.    “Oh!” he murmured, as he left the threshold of the palace: “ungrateful  court! faithless court! cowardly court! I will teach you how to laugh  to-morrow--but in another manner.”    But whilst they were indulging in extravagant joy at the Palais Royal,  to increase the hilarity of the queen, Mazarin, a man of sense, and  whose fear, moreover, gave him foresight, lost no time in making idle  and dangerous jokes; he went out after the coadjutor, settled his  account, locked up his gold, and had confidential workmen to contrive  hiding places in his walls.    On his return home the coadjutor was informed that a young man had come  in after his departure and was waiting for him; he started with delight  when, on demanding the name of this young man, he learned that it was  Louvieres. He hastened to his cabinet. Broussel’s son was there, still  furious, and still bearing bloody marks of his struggle with the king’s  officers. The only precaution he had taken in coming to the  archbishopric was to leave his arquebuse in the hands of a friend.    The coadjutor went to him and held out his hand. The young man gazed at  him as if he would have read the secret of his heart.    “My dear Monsieur Louvieres,” said the coadjutor, “believe me, I am  truly concerned for the misfortune which has happened to you.”    “Is that true, and do you speak seriously?” asked Louvieres.    “From the depth of my heart,” said Gondy.    “In that case, my lord, the time for words has passed and the hour for  action is at hand; my lord, in three days, if you wish it, my father  will be out of prison and in six months you may be cardinal.”    The coadjutor started. 
