  "What is this all about?" then demanded he of the assembly, with the  majestic tone of Neptune pronouncing the Quos ego.    At the very instant, at the first sound of his voice, to carry on the  Virgilian metaphor, D’Artagnan’s recruits, recognizing each his  sovereign lord, discontinued their plank-fighting and trestle blows. On  their side, the sailors, seeing that long naked sword, that martial air,  and the agile arm which came to the rescue of their enemies, in the  person of a man who seemed accustomed to command, the sailors picked up  their wounded and their pitchers. The Parisians wiped their brows, and  viewed their leader with respect. D’Artagnan was loaded with thanks by  the host of "Le Grand Monarque." He received them like a man who knows  that nothing is being offered that does not belong to him, and then said  he would go and walk upon the port till supper was ready. Immediately  each of the recruits, who understood the summons, took his hat, brushed  the dust off his clothes, and followed D’Artagnan. But D’Artagnan,  whilst walking and observing, took care not to stop; he directed his  course towards the downs, and the ten men--surprised at finding  themselves going in the track of each other, uneasy at seeing on their  right, on their left, and behind them, companions upon whom they had not  reckoned--followed him, casting furtive glances at each other. It was  not till he had arrived at the hollow part of the deepest down that  D’Artagnan, smiling to see them outdone, turned towards them, making a  friendly sign with his hand.    "Eh! come, come, gentlemen," said he, "let us not devour each other; you  are made to live together, to understand each other in all respects, and  not to devour one another."    Instantly all hesitation ceased; the men breathed as if they had been  taken out of a coffin, and examined each other complacently. After this  examination they turned their eyes towards their leader, who had long  been acquainted with the art of speaking to men of that class, and who  improvised the following little speech, pronounced with an energy truly  Gascon:    "Gentlemen, you all know who I am. I have engaged you from knowing you 
