possible to the extremity of the curve.    Monsieur, like a good courtier, was inquiring of monsieur le cardinal  after the health of his nieces; he regretted, he said, not having the  pleasure of receiving them at the same time with their uncle; they must  certainly have grown in stature, beauty and grace, as they had promised  to do the last time Monsieur had seen them.    What had first struck the king was a certain constraint in the voices of  the two interlocutors. The voice of Monsieur was calm and natural when  he spoke thus; while that of M. de Mazarin jumped by a note and a half  to reply above the diapason of his usual voice. It might have been said  that he wished that voice to strike, at the end of the salon, any ear  that was too distant.    "Monseigneur," replied he, "Mesdemoiselles de Mazarin have still to  finish their education: they have duties to fulfill, and a position to  make. An abode in a young and brilliant court would dissipate them a  little."    Louis, at this last sentence, smiled sadly. The court was young, it was  true, but the avarice of the cardinal had taken good care that it should  not be brilliant.    "You have nevertheless no intention," replied Monsieur, "to cloister  them or make them borgeoises?"    "Not at all," replied the cardinal, forcing his Italian pronunciation in  such a manner that, from soft and velvety as it was, it became sharp and  vibrating; "not at all: I have a full and fixed intention to marry them,  and that as well as I shall be able."    "Parties will not be wanting, monsieur le cardinal," replied Monsieur,  with a bonhomie worthy of one tradesman congratulating another.    "I hope not, monseigneur, and with reason, as God has been pleased to  give them grace, intelligence, and beauty."    During this conversation, Louis XIV., conducted by Madame, accomplished,  as we have described, the circle of presentations.    "Mademoiselle Auricule," said the princess, presenting to his majesty a  fat, fair girl of two-and-twenty, who at a village fete might have been  taken for a peasant in Sunday finery,--"the daughter of my 
