   At length she caught an eloquent look of her companion’s, one of those  looks which would convey intelligence to a brick wall. Louise directed  her attention to a hat--Raoul’s unlucky hat, which was set out in all  its feathery splendor upon the table.    Montalais sprang towards it, and, seizing it with her left hand, passed  it behind her into the right, concealing it as she was speaking.    "Well," said Madame de Saint-Remy, "a courier has arrived, announcing  the approach of the king. There, mesdemoiselles; there is something to  make you put on your best looks."    "Quick, quick!" cried Montalais. "Follow Madame your mother, Louise; and  leave me to get ready my dress of ceremony."    Louise arose; her mother took her by the hand, and led her out on to the  landing.    "Come along," said she; then adding in a low voice, "When I forbid you  to come the apartment of Montalais, why do you do so?"    "Madame, she is my friend. Besides, I had but just come."    "Did you see nobody concealed while you were there?"    "Madame!"    "I saw a man’s hat, I tell you--the hat of that fellow, that  good-for-nothing!"    "Madame!" repeated Louise.    "Of that do-nothing Malicorne! A maid of honor to have such  company--fie! fie!" and their voices were lost in the depths of the  narrow staircase.    Montalais had not missed a word of this conversation, which echo  conveyed to her as if through a tunnel. She shrugged her shoulders on  seeing Raoul, who had listened likewise, issue from the closet.    "Poor Montalais!" said she, "the victim of friendship! Poor Malicorne,  the victim of love!"    She stopped on viewing the tragic-comic face of Raoul, who was vexed at  having, in one day, surprised so many secrets.    "Oh, mademoiselle!" said he; "how can we repay your kindness?"    "Oh, we will balance accounts some day," said she. "For the present,  begone, M. de Bragelonne, for Madame de Saint-Remy is not over  indulgent; and any indiscretion on her part might bring hither a 
