going on badly.    During all this time Charles II. had fallen into a profound reverie. For  the first time he found himself face to face with Monk; with the man he  had so much desired to see; and, with that peculiar glance which God has  given to eagles and kings, he had fathomed the abyss of his heart. He  beheld Monk, then, resolved positively to die rather than speak, which  was not to be wondered at in so considerable a man, the wound in whose  mind must at the moment have been cruel. Charles II. formed, on the  instant, one of those resolutions upon which an ordinary man risks his  life, a general his fortune, and a king his kingdom. "Monsieur," said he  to Monk, "you are perfectly right upon certain points; I do not,  therefore, ask you to answer me, but to listen to me."    There was a moment’s silence, during which the king looked at Monk, who  remained impassible.    "You have made me just now a painful reproach, monsieur," continued the  king; "you said that one of my emissaries had been to Newcastle to lay a  snare for you, and that, parenthetically, cannot be understood by M.  d’Artagnan here, and to whom, before everything, I owe sincere thanks  for his generous, his heroic devotion."    D’Artagnan bowed with respect; Monk took no notice.    "For M. d’Artagnan--and observe, M. Monk, I do not say this to excuse  myself--for M. d’Artagnan," continued the king, "went to England of his  free will, without interest, without orders, without hope, like a true  gentleman as he is, to render a service to an unfortunate king, and to  add to the illustrious actions of an existence, already so well filled,  one glorious deed more."    D’Artagnan colored a little, and coughed to keep his countenance. Monk  did not stir.    "You do not believe what I tell you, M. Monk," continued the king. "I  can understand that,--such proofs of devotion are so rare, that their  reality may well be put in doubt."    "Monsieur would do wrong not to believe you, sire," cried D’Artagnan:  "for that which your majesty has said is the exact truth, and the truth 
