D’Artagnan, surprising one of those smiles over his shoulder, put the  bundle in its wrapper.    "I beg your pardon," said Athos.    "Oh! not at all, my friend," replied the lieutenant, "I shall tell  you--"    "No, don’t tell me anything, I beg you; orders are things so sacred,  that to one’s brother, one’s father, the person charged with such orders  should never open his mouth. Thus I, who speak to you, and love you more  tenderly than brother, father, or all the world--"    "Except your Raoul?"    "I shall love Raoul still better when he shall be a man, and I shall  have seen him develop himself in all the phases of his character and his  actions--as I have seen you, my friend."    "You said, then, that you had an order likewise, and that you would not  communicate it to me."    "Yes, my dear D’Artagnan."    The Gascon sighed. "There was a time," said he, "when you would have  placed that order open upon the table, saying, ’D’Artagnan, read this  scrawl to Porthos, Aramis, and to me.’"    "That is true. Oh! that was the time of youth, confidence, the generous  season when the blood commands, when it is warmed by feeling!"    "Well! Athos, will you allow me to tell you?"    "Speak, my friend!"    "That delightful time, that generous season, that ruling by warm blood,  were all very fine things, no doubt: but I do not regret them at all. It  is absolutely like the period of studies. I have constantly met with  fools who would boast of the days of pensums, ferules, and crusts of dry  bread. It is singular, but I never loved all that; for my part, however  active and sober I might be (you know if I was so, Athos), however  simple I might appear in my clothes, I would not the less have preferred  the braveries and embroideries of Porthos to my little perforated  cassock, which gave passage to the wind in winter and the sun in summer.  I should always, my friend, mistrust him who would pretend to prefer  evil to good. Now, in times past all went wrong with me, and every month 
