 if he wants me, he will give me what he has promised me--warmth and  light; so that I march, comparatively, now, as I marched formerly,--from  nothing to everything. Only the nothing of to-day is the all of former  days; there has only this little change taken place in my life. And now  let us see! let us take the part of the heart, as I just now was  speaking of it. But in truth, I only spoke of it from memory." And the  Gascon applied his hand to his breast, as if he were actually seeking  the place where his heart was.    "Ah! wretch!" murmured he, smiling with bitterness. "Ah! poor mortal  species! You hoped, for an instant, that you had not a heart, and now  you find you have one--bad courtier as thou art,--and even one of the  most seditious. You have a heart which speaks to you in favor of M.  Fouquet. And what is M. Fouquet, when the king is in question?--A  conspirator, a real conspirator, who did not even give himself the  trouble to conceal his being a conspirator; therefore, what a weapon  would you not have against him, if his good grace, and his intelligence  had not made a scabbard for that weapon. An armed revolt!--for, in fact,  M. Fouquet has been guilty of an armed revolt. Thus, while the king  vaguely suspects M. Fouquet of rebellion, I know it--I could prove that  M. Fouquet had caused the shedding of the blood of his majesty’s  subjects. Now, then, let us see. Knowing all that, and holding my  tongue, what further would this heart wish in return for a kind action  of M. Fouquet’s, for an advance of fifteen thousand livres, for a  diamond worth a thousand pistoles, for a smile in which there was as  much bitterness as kindness?--I save his life."    "Now, then, I hope," continued the musketeer, "that this imbecile of a  heart is going to preserve silence, and so be fairly quits with M.  Fouquet. Now, then, the king becomes my sun, and as my heart is quits  with M. Fouquet, let him beware who places himself between me and my  sun! Forward, for his majesty Louis XIV.!--Forward!" 
