 "For me?" cried the Duc d’Anjou.    "Those fifty thousand crowns; yes, monseigneur, they are yours."    "Do you give them to me?"    "I have been playing on your account, monseigneur," replied the  cardinal, getting weaker and weaker, as if this effort of giving money  had exhausted all his physical and moral faculties.    "Oh, good heavens!" exclaimed Philip, wild with joy, "what a fortunate  day!" And he himself, making a rake of his fingers, drew a part of the  sum into his pockets, which he filled, and still full a third remained  on the table.    "Chevalier," said Philip to his favorite, the Chevalier de Lorraine,  "come hither, chevalier." The favorite quickly obeyed. "Pocket the  rest," said the young prince.    This singular scene was considered by the persons present only as a  touching kind of family fete. The cardinal assumed the airs of a father  with the sons of France, and the two princes had grown up under his  wing. No one then imputed to pride, or even impertinence, as would be  done nowadays, this liberality on the part of the first minister. The  courtiers were satisfied with envying the prince.--The king turned away  his head.    "I never had so much money before," said the young prince, joyously, as  he crossed the chamber with his favorite to go to his carriage. "No,  never! What a weight these crowns are!"    "But why has monsieur le cardinal given away all this money at once?"  asked M. le Prince of the Comte de la Fere. "He must be very ill, the  dear cardinal!"    "Yes, my lord, very ill, without doubt; he looks very ill, as your royal  highness may perceive."    "But surely he will die of it. A hundred and fifty thousand livres! Oh,  it is incredible! But, comte, tell me a reason for it?"    "Patience, monseigneur, I beg of you. Here comes M. le Duc d’Anjou,  talking with the Chevalier de Lorraine; I should not be surprised if  they spared us the trouble of being indiscreet. Listen to them."    In fact the chevalier said to the prince in a low voice, "My lord, it is 
