From the spot on which they had placed themselves the two new guests of  the Image-de-Notre-Dame heard the ever-increasing hubbub of the tide of  people, and lost neither a cry nor a gesture of the drinkers, at tables  in the cabaret, or disseminated in the chambers. If D’Artagnan had  wished to place himself as a vidette for an expedition, he could not  have succeeded better. The tree under which he and Raoul were seated  covered them with its already thick foliage; it was a low, thick  chestnut-tree, with inclined branches, that cast their shade over a  table so dilapidated the drinkers had abandoned it. We said that from  this post D’Artagnan saw everything. He observed the goings and comings  of the waiters; the arrival of fresh drinkers; the welcome, sometimes  friendly, sometimes hostile, given to the newcomers by others already  installed. He observed all this to amuse himself, for the thirty-seven  and a half pistoles were a long time coming. Raoul recalled his  attention to it. "Monsieur," said he, "you do not hurry your tenant, and  the condemned will soon be here. There will then be such a press we  shall not be able to get out."    "You are right," said the musketeer; "Hola! oh! somebody there!  Mordioux!" But it was in vain he cried and knocked upon the wreck of the  old table, which fell to pieces beneath his fist; nobody came.  D’Artagnan was preparing to go and seek the cabaretier himself, to force  him to a definite explanation, when the door of the court in which he  was with Raoul, a door which communicated with the garden situated at  the back, opened, and a man dressed as a cavalier, with his sword in the  sheath, but not at his belt, crossed the court without closing the door;  and having cast an oblique glance at D’Artagnan and his companion,  directed his course towards the cabaret itself, looking about in all  directions with his eyes capable of piercing walls of consciences.  "Humph!" said D’Artagnan, "my tenants are communicating. That, no doubt,  now, is some amateur in hanging matters." At the same moment the cries  and disturbance in the upper chambers ceased. Silence, under such  circumstances, surprises more than a twofold increase of noise. 
