Valliere should be similarly cared for.”    “But, M. Raoul,” said Louise, innocently, “there is no difference in the  matter, and I do not see why I should not tell it you myself; it was M.  Malicorne who obtained it for me.”    Raoul remained for a moment almost stupefied, asking himself if they  were trifling with him; he then turned round to interrogate Malicorne,  but he had been hurried away by Montalais, and was already at some  distance from them. Mademoiselle de la Valliere attempted to follow her  friend, but Raoul, with gentle authority, detained her.    “Louise, one word, I beg.”    “But, M. Raoul,” said Louise, blushing, “we are alone. Every one has  left. They will become anxious, and will be looking for us.”    “Fear nothing,” said the young man, smiling, “we are neither of us of  sufficient importance for our absence to be remarked.”    “But I have my duty to perform, M. Raoul.”    “Do not be alarmed, I am acquainted with these usages of the court; you  will not be on duty until to-morrow; a few minutes are at your disposal,  which will enable you to give me the information I am about to have the  honor to ask you for.”    “How serious you are, M. Raoul!” said Louise.    “Because the circumstances are serious. Are you listening?”    “I am listening; I would only repeat, monsieur, that we are quite  alone.”    “You are right,” said Raoul, and, offering her his hand, he led the  young girl into the gallery adjoining the reception-room, the windows  of which looked out upon the courtyard. Every one hurried towards the  middle window, which had a balcony outside, from which all the details  of the slow and formal preparations for departure could be seen. Raoul  opened one of the side windows, and then, being alone with Louise, said  to her: “You know, Louise, that from my childhood I have regarded you  as my sister, as one who has been the confidante of all my troubles, to  whom I have entrusted all my hopes.”    “Yes, M. Raoul,” she answered softly; “yes, M. Raoul, I know that.” 
