contemplation, returned it with apparent unwillingness, saying, “Most  decidedly, my lord, I should rather prefer to look ten times at your  highness, than to look at Madame once again.” It seemed as if the  chevalier had detected some mystery in these words, which were  incomprehensible to the prince, for he exclaimed: “Very well, get  married yourself.” Monsieur continued painting himself, and when he  had finished, looked at the portrait again once more, turned to admire  himself in the glass, and smiled, and no doubt was satisfied with the  comparison. “You are very kind to have come,” he said to Guiche, “I  feared you would leave without bidding me adieu.”    “Your highness knows me too well to believe me capable of so great a  disrespect.”    “Besides, I suppose you have something to ask from me before leaving  Paris?”    “Your highness has indeed guessed correctly, for I have a request to  make.”    “Very good, what is it?”    The Chevalier de Lorraine immediately displayed the greatest attention,  for he regarded every favor conferred upon another as a robbery  committed against himself. And, as Guiche hesitated, the prince said:  “If it be money, nothing could be more fortunate, for I am in funds; the  superintendent of the finances has sent me 500,000 pistoles.”    “I thank your highness; but is not an affair of money.”    “What is it, then? Tell me.”    “The appointment of a maid of honor.”    “Oh! oh! Guiche, what a protector you have become of young ladies,” said  the prince, “you never speak of any one else now.”    The Chevalier de Lorraine smiled, for he knew very well that nothing  displeased the prince more than to show any interest in ladies. “My  lord,” said the comte, “it is not I who am directly interested in the  lady of whom I have just spoken; I am acting on behalf of one of my  friends.”    “Ah! that is different; what is the name of the young lady in whom your  friend is so interested?”    “Mlle. de la Baume le Blanc de la Valliere; she is already maid of honor 
