“The deuce! so that the one hundred and fifty thousand francs have  passed into their hands.”    “Precisely so.”    “And beyond that?”    “A sum of one hundred and fifty thousand francs, or fifteen thousand  pistoles, whichever you please, in three payments.”    “Exorbitant.”    “Yes, but that is not all.”    “What besides?”    “In default of the fulfillment by me of any one of those conditions,  those gentlemen enter upon their functions again. The king has been  induced to sign that.”    “It is monstrous, incredible!”    “Such is the fact, however.”    “I do indeed pity you, Baisemeaux. But why, in the name of fortune, did  M. Mazarin grant you this pretended favor? It would have been far better  to have refused you altogether.”    “Certainly, but he was strongly persuaded to do so by my protector.”    “Who is he?”    “One of your own friends, indeed; M. d’Herblay.”    “M. d’Herblay! Aramis!”    “Just so; he has been very kind towards me.”    “Kind! to make you enter into such a bargain!”    “Listen! I wished to leave the cardinal’s service. M. d’Herblay spoke on  my behalf to Louviere and Tremblay--they objected; I wished to have the  appointment very much, for I knew what it could be made to produce;  in my distress I confided in M. d’Herblay, and he offered to become my  surety for the different payments.”    “You astound me! Aramis became your surety?”    “Like a man of honor; he procured the signature; Tremblay and Louviere  resigned their appointments; I have paid every year twenty-five thousand  francs to these two gentlemen; on the thirty-first of May, every year,  M. d’Herblay himself comes to the Bastile, and brings me five thousand  pistoles to distribute between my crocodiles.”    “You owe Aramis one hundred and fifty thousand francs, then?”    “That is the very thing which is the cause of my despair, for I only owe  him one hundred thousand.”    “I don’t quite understand you.”    “He came and settled with the vampires only two years. To-day, however, 
