 streets of the town.”    “You observe, however, that he has changed his tactics.”    “Yes, certainly; but this is the very thing that amazes me so much. You  spoke to him in a low tone of voice, what did you say to him? You think  he loves her; you admit that such a passion does not give way readily.  He does not love her, then!” De Guiche pronounced the latter with so  marked an expression that Raoul raised his head. The noble character of  the young man’s countenance expressed a displeasure which could easily  be read.    “What I said to him, count,” replied Raoul, “I will repeat to you.  Listen to me. I said, ‘You are regarding with wistful feelings, and most  injurious desire, the sister of your prince,--her to whom you are  not affianced, who is not, who can never be anything to you; you are  outraging those who, like ourselves, have come to seek a young lady to  escort her to her husband.’”    “You spoke to him in that manner?” asked Guiche, coloring.    “In those very terms; I even added more. ‘How would you regard us,’  I said, ‘if you were to perceive among us a man mad enough, disloyal  enough, to entertain other than sentiments of the most perfect respect  for a princess who is the destined wife of our master?’”    These words were so applicable to De Guiche that he turned pale, and,  overcome by a sudden agitation, was barely able to stretch out one hand  mechanically towards Raoul, as he covered his eyes and face with the  other.    “But,” continued Raoul, not interrupted by this movement of his friend,  “Heaven be praised, the French, who are pronounced to be thoughtless  and indiscreet, reckless, even, are capable of bringing a calm and sound  judgment to bear on matters of such high importance. I added even  more, for I said, ‘Learn, my lord, that we gentlemen of France devote  ourselves to our sovereigns by sacrificing them our affections, as well  as our fortunes and our lives; and whenever it may chance to happen that  the tempter suggests one of those vile thoughts that set the heart on 
