  “And now, sire, that I have justified myself, at least I trust so, in  your majesty’s eyes, grant me leave to retire into a convent. I shall  bless your majesty all my life, and I shall die thanking and loving  Heaven for having granted me one hour of perfect happiness.”    “No, no,” replied the king, “you will live here blessing Heaven, on the  contrary, but loving Louis, who will make your existence one of perfect  felicity--Louis who loves you--Louis who swears it.”    “Oh! sire, sire!”    And upon this doubt of La Valliere, the king’s kisses became so warm  that Saint-Aignan thought it was his duty to retire behind the tapestry.  These kisses, however, which she had not the strength at first to  resist, began to intimidate the young girl.    “Oh! sire,” she exclaimed, “do not make me repeat my loyalty, for this  would show me that your majesty despises me still.”    “Mademoiselle de la Valliere,” said the king, suddenly, drawing back  with an air full of respect, “there is nothing in the world that I love  and honor more than yourself, and nothing in my court, I call Heaven  to witness, shall be so highly regarded as you shall be henceforward.  I entreat your forgiveness for my transport; it arose from an excess  of affection, but I can prove to you that I love you more than ever by  respecting you as much as you can possibly desire or deserve.” Then,  bending before her, and taking her by the hand, he said to her, “Will  you honor me by accepting the kiss I press upon your hand?” And the  king’s lips were pressed respectfully and lightly upon the young girl’s  trembling hand. “Henceforth,” added Louis, rising and bending his glance  upon La Valliere, “henceforth you are under my safeguard. Do not speak  to any one of the injury I have done you, forgive others that which they  may have attempted. For the future, you shall be so far above all those,  that, far from inspiring you with fear, they shall be even beneath your  pity.” And he bowed as reverently as though he were leaving a place  of worship. Then calling to Saint-Aignan, who approached with great 
