 possible. The traveler, drawing his cloak round him so as to cover the  lower part of his face, cast a rapid glance at Malicorne, and said,  “This gentleman is no friend of mine.”    The landlord started violently.    “I am not acquainted with this gentleman,” continued the traveler.    “What!” exclaimed the host, turning to Malicorne, “are you not this  gentleman’s friend, then?”    “What does it matter whether I am or not, provided you are paid?” said  Malicorne, parodying the stranger’s remark in a very majestic manner.    “It matters so far as this,” said the landlord, who began to perceive  that one person had been taken for another, “that I beg you, monsieur,  to leave the rooms, which had been engaged beforehand, and by some one  else instead of you.”    “Still,” said Malicorne, “this gentleman cannot require at the same  time a room on the first floor and an apartment on the second. If this  gentleman will take the room, I will take the apartment: if he prefers  the apartment, I will be satisfied with the room.”    “I am exceedingly distressed, monsieur,” said the traveler in his soft  voice, “but I need both the room and the apartment.”    “At least, tell me for whom?” inquired Malicorne.    “The apartment I require for myself.”    “Very well; but the room?”    “Look,” said the traveler, pointing towards a sort of procession which  was approaching.    Malicorne looked in the direction indicated, and observed borne upon  a litter, the arrival of the Franciscan, whose installation in his  apartment he had, with a few details of his own, related to Montalais,  and whom he had so uselessly endeavored to convert to humbler views. The  result of the arrival of the stranger, and of the sick Franciscan, was  Malicorne’s expulsion, without any consideration for his feelings,  from the inn, by the landlord and the peasants who had carried the  Franciscan. The details have already been given of what followed this  expulsion; of Manicamp’s conversation with Montalais; how Manicamp, with  greater cleverness than Malicorne had shown, had succeeded in obtaining  news of De Guiche, of the subsequent conversation of Montalais with 
