 qualifications, he might be pronounced to be the first and foremost  among the shepherds in the whole country; one might even boldly say he  was the king of shepherds.” A subdued murmur of approbation encouraged  the narrator, who continued:--“His strength equals his courage; no one  displays greater address in hunting wild beasts, nor greater wisdom in  matters where judgment is required. Whenever he mounts and exercises his  horse in the beautiful plains of his inheritance, or whenever he joins  with the shepherds who owe him allegiance, in different games of skill  and strength, one might say that it is the god Mars hurling his lance on  the plains of Thrace, or, even better, that it was Apollo himself, the  god of day, radiant upon earth, bearing his flaming darts in his hand.”  Every one understood that this allegorical portrait of the king was not  the worst exordium the narrator could have chosen; and consequently it  did not fail to produce its effect, either upon those who, from duty or  inclination, applauded it to the very echo, or on the king himself, to  whom flattery was very agreeable when delicately conveyed, and whom,  indeed, it did not always displease, even when it was a little too  broad. Saint-Aignan then continued:--“It is not in games of glory only,  ladies, that the shepherd Tyrcis had acquired that reputation by which  he was regarded as the king of the shepherds.”    “Of the shepherds of Fontainebleau,” said the king, smilingly, to  Madame.    “Oh!” exclaimed Madame, “Fontainebleau is selected arbitrarily by the  poet; but I should say, of the shepherds of the whole world.” The king  forgot his part of a passive auditor, and bowed.    “It is,” paused Saint-Aignan, amidst a flattering murmur of applause,  “it is with ladies fair especially that the qualities of this king of  the shepherds are most prominently displayed. He is a shepherd with a  mind as refined as his heart is pure; he can pay a compliment with a  charm of manner whose fascination it is impossible to resist; and in his  attachments he is so discreet, that beautiful and happy conquests may  regard their lot as more than enviable. Never a syllable of disclosure, 
