  “That is very probable,” said the man, in the calmest and coolest of  tones.    “In that case, then, what would people say? Oh! if any one were to see  me, I declare I should die of very shame.”    “Oh! that would be very silly; I do not believe you would.”    “It might have been different if there had been anything between us; but  to injure myself gratuitously is really very foolish of me; so, adieu,  Monsieur Manicamp.”    “So far so good; I know the man, and now let me see who the woman is,”  said Saint-Aignan, watching the rounds of the ladder, on which were  standing two pretty little feet covered with blue satin shoes.    “Nay, nay, for pity’s sake, my dear Montalais,” cried Manicamp, “deuce  take it, do not go away; I have a great many things to say to you, of  the greatest importance, still.”    “Montalais,” said Saint-Aignan to himself, “one of the three. Each of  the three gossips had her adventure, only I imagined the hero of this  one’s adventure was Malicorne and not Manicamp.”    At her companion’s appeal, Montalais stopped in the middle of her  descent, and Saint-Aignan could observe the unfortunate Manicamp climb  from one branch of the chestnut-tree to another, either to improve his  situation or to overcome the fatigue consequent upon his inconvenient  position.    “Now, listen to me,” said he; “you quite understand, I hope, that my  intentions are perfectly innocent?”    “Of course. But why did you write me a letter stimulating my gratitude  towards you? Why did you ask me for an interview at such an hour and in  such a place as this?”    “I stimulated your gratitude in reminding you that it was I who had been  the means of your becoming attached to Madame’s household; because most  anxiously desirous of obtaining the interview you have been kind enough  to grant me, I employed the means which appeared to me most certain to  insure it. And my reason for soliciting it, at such an hour and in such  a locality, was, that the hour seemed to me to be the most prudent, and 
