 Fouquet and Aramis contemplated it in attitudes as motionless as La  Valliere and the king. “Oh, sire!” murmured La Valliere, “do you hear?”  and her head fell upon his shoulder.    “Yes,” said the king. “You see, the storm has not passed away.”    “_It is a warning, sire_.” The king smiled. “Sire, it is the voice of  Heaven in anger.”    “Be it so,” said the king. “I agree to accept that peal of thunder as  a warning, and even as a menace, if, in five minutes from the present  moment, it is renewed with equal violence; but if not, permit me to  think that the storm is a storm simply, and nothing more.” And the king,  at the same moment, raised his head, as if to interrogate the heavens.  But, as if the remark had been heard and accepted, during the five  minutes which elapsed after the burst of thunder which had alarmed them,  no renewed peal was heard; and, when the thunder was again heard, it was  passing as plainly as if, during those same five minutes, the storm, put  to flight, had traversed the heavens with the wings of the wind. “Well,  Louise,” said the king, in a low tone of voice, “do you still threaten  me with the anger of Heaven? and, since you wished to regard the storm  as a warning, do you still believe it bodes misfortune?”    The young girl looked up, and saw that while they had been talking, the  rain had penetrated the foliage above them, and was trickling down  the king’s face. “Oh, sire, sire!” she exclaimed, in accents of eager  apprehensions, which greatly agitated the king. “Is it for me,” she  murmured, “that the king remains thus uncovered, and exposed to the  rain? What am I, then?”    “You are, you perceive,” said the king, “the divinity who dissipates the  storm, and brings back fine weather.” In fact, even as the king spoke,  a ray of sunlight streamed through the forest, and caused the rain-drops  which rested upon the leaves, or fell vertically among the openings in  the branches of the trees, to glisten like diamonds.    “Sire,” said La Valliere, almost overcome, but making a powerful effort 
