block of ice; but it is a very different thing when an absent friend  is concerned, a friend, who, on leaving, confided his interests to my  safe-keeping; for such a friend, De Wardes, believe me, I am like fire  itself.”    “I understand you, Monsieur de Guiche. In spite of what you say, there  cannot be any question between us, just now, either of Bragelonne or of  this insignificant girl, whose name is La Valliere.”    At this moment some of the younger courtiers were crossing the  apartment, and having already heard the few words which had just been  pronounced, were able also to hear those which were about to follow. De  Wardes observed this, and continued aloud:--“Oh! if La Valliere were a  coquette like Madame, whose innocent flirtations, I am sure, were, first  of all, the cause of the Duke of Buckingham being sent back to England,  and afterwards were the reason of your being sent into exile; for you  will not deny, I suppose, that Madame’s pretty ways really had a certain  influence over you?”    The courtiers drew nearer to the speakers, Saint-Aignan at their head,  and then Manicamp.    “But, my dear fellow, whose fault was that?” said De Guiche, laughing.  “I am a vain, conceited fellow, I know, and everybody else knows it too.  I took seriously that which was only intended as a jest, and got myself  exiled for my pains. But I saw my error. I overcame my vanity, and I  obtained my recall, by making the _amende honorable_, and by promising  myself to overcome this defect; and the consequence is, that I am so  thoroughly cured, that I now laugh at the very thing which, three or  four days ago, would have almost broken my heart. But Raoul is in love,  and is loved in return; he cannot laugh at the reports which disturb his  happiness--reports which you seem to have undertaken to interpret, when  you know, marquis, as I do, as these gentlemen do, as every one does in  fact, that all such reports are pure calumny.”    “Calumny!” exclaimed De Wardes, furious at seeing himself caught in the  snare by De Guiche’s coolness of temper. 
