Chapter V. Planchet’s Country-House.    The cavaliers looked up, and saw that what Planchet had announced to  them was true. Ten minutes afterwards they were in the street called the  Rue de Lyon, on the opposite side of the hostelry of the Beau Paon.  A high hedge of bushy elders, hawthorn, and wild hops formed an  impenetrable fence, behind which rose a white house, with a high tiled  roof. Two of the windows, which were quite dark, looked upon the street.  Between the two, a small door, with a porch supported by a couple of  pillars, formed the entrance to the house. The door was gained by a step  raised a little from the ground. Planchet got off his horse, as if he  intended to knock at the door; but, on second thoughts, he took hold of  his horse by the bridle, and led it about thirty paces further on, his  two companions following him. He then advanced about another thirty  paces, until he arrived at the door of a cart-house, lighted by an  iron grating; and, lifting up a wooden latch, pushed open one of the  folding-doors. He entered first, leading his horse after him by the  bridle, into a small courtyard, where an odor met them which revealed  their close vicinity to a stable. “That smells all right,” said Porthos,  loudly, getting off his horse, “and I almost begin to think I am near my  own cows at Pierrefonds.”    “I have only one cow,” Planchet hastened to say modestly.    “And I have thirty,” said Porthos; “or rather, I don’t exactly know how  many I have.”    When the two cavaliers had entered, Planchet fastened the door behind  them. In the meantime, D’Artagnan, who had dismounted with his usual  agility, inhaled the fresh perfumed air with the delight a Parisian  feels at the sight of green fields and fresh foliage, plucked a piece  of honeysuckle with one hand, and of sweet-briar with the other. Porthos  clawed hold of some peas which were twined round poles stuck into  the ground, and ate, or rather browsed upon them, shells and all: and  Planchet was busily engaged trying to wake up an old and infirm peasant, 
