but would have followed me without requiring any explanation.”    “Well, mademoiselle, I am quite ready to conduct myself as a true  knight.”    “No; it is too late, and you cannot take the credit of it. We are going  to Madame’s apartment, so come at once.”    “Ah, ah!” said Manicamp. “Lead on, then.”    And he followed Montalais, who ran before him as light as Galatea.    “This time,” said Manicamp, as he followed his guide, “I do not think  that stories about hunting expeditions would be acceptable. We will try,  however, and if need be--well, if there should be any occasion for it,  we must try something else.”    Montalais still ran on.    “How fatiguing it is,” thought Manicamp, “to have need of one’s head and  legs at the same time.”    At last, however, they arrived. Madame had just finished undressing, and  was in a most elegant _deshabille_, but it must be understood that she  had changed her dress before she had any idea of being subjected to  the emotions now agitating her. She was waiting with the most restless  impatience; and Montalais and Manicamp found her standing near the door.  At the sound of their approaching footsteps, Madame came forward to meet  them.    “Ah!” she said, “at last!”    “Here is M. Manicamp,” replied Montalais.    Manicamp bowed with the greatest respect; Madame signed to Montalais to  withdraw, and she immediately obeyed. Madame followed her with her eyes,  in silence, until the door closed behind her, and then, turning towards  Manicamp, said, “What is the matter?--and is it true, as I am told,  Monsieur de Manicamp, that some one is lying wounded in the chateau?”    “Yes, Madame, unfortunately so--Monsieur de Guiche.”    “Yes, Monsieur de Guiche,” repeated the princess. “I had, in fact,  heard it rumored, but not confirmed. And so, in truth, it is Monsieur de  Guiche who has been thus unfortunate?”    “M. de Guiche himself, Madame.”    “Are you aware, M. de Manicamp,” said the princess, hastily, “that the  king has the strongest antipathy to duels?”    “Perfectly so, Madame; but a duel with a wild beast is not answerable.” 
