most carefully, on foot and with his lantern in his hand, the whole  surface of the Rond-point, went forward, turned back again, measured,  examined, and after half an hour’s minute inspection, he returned  silently to where he had left his horse, and pursued his way in deep  reflection and at a foot-pace to Fontainebleau. Louis was waiting in his  cabinet; he was alone, and with a pencil was scribbling on paper certain  lines which D’Artagnan at the first glance recognized as unequal and  very much touched up. The conclusion he arrived at was, that they must  be verses. The king raised his head and perceived D’Artagnan. “Well,  monsieur,” he said, “do you bring me any news?”    “Yes, sire.”    “What have you seen?”    “As far as probability goes, sire--” D’Artagnan began to reply.    “It was certainty I requested of you.”    “I will approach it as near as I possibly can. The weather was very well  adapted for investigations of the character I have just made; it has  been raining this evening, and the roads were wet and muddy--”    “Well, the result, M. d’Artagnan?”    “Sire, your majesty told me that there was a horse lying dead in the  cross-road of the Bois-Rochin, and I began, therefore, by studying the  roads. I say the roads, because the center of the cross-road is reached  by four separate roads. The one that I myself took was the only one that  presented any fresh traces. Two horses had followed it side by side;  their eight feet were marked very distinctly in the clay. One of the  riders was more impatient than the other, for the footprints of the one  were invariably in advance of the other about half a horse’s length.”    “Are you quite sure they were traveling together?” said the king.    “Yes sire. The horses are two rather large animals of equal  pace,--horses well used to maneuvers of all kinds, for they wheeled  round the barrier of the Rond-point together.”    “Well--and after?”    “The two cavaliers paused there for a minute, no doubt to arrange the  conditions of the engagement; the horses grew restless and impatient. 
