“Very good! I will mention the word ‘medal,’ and they can understand it  if they like.”    “Oh! they will understand without any difficulty. Your majesty can also  slip in a few words about certain pamphlets which are being circulated.”    “Never! Pamphlets befoul those who write them much more than those  against whom they are written. M. Colbert, I thank you. You can leave  now. Do not forget the hour I have fixed, and be there yourself.”    “Sire, I await your majesty’s list.”    “True,” returned the king; and he began to meditate; he had not thought  of the list in the least. The clock struck half-past eleven. The king’s  face revealed a violent conflict between pride and love. The political  conversation had dispelled a good deal of the irritation which Louis had  felt, and La Valliere’s pale, worn features, in his imagination, spoke  a very different language from that of the Dutch medals, or the Batavian  pamphlets. He sat for ten minutes debating within himself whether he  should or should not return to La Valliere; but Colbert having with some  urgency respectfully requested that the list might be furnished him,  the king was ashamed to be thinking of mere matters of affection where  important state affairs required his attention. He therefore dictated:  the queen-mother, the queen, Madame, Madame de Motteville, Madame de  Chatillon, Madame de Navailles; and, for the men, M. le Prince, M. de  Gramont, M. de Manicamp, M. de Saint-Aignan, and the officers on duty.    “The ministers?” asked Colbert.    “As a matter of course, and the secretaries also.”    “Sire, I will leave at once in order to get everything prepared; the  orders will be at the different residences to-morrow.”    “Say rather to-day,” replied Louis mournfully, as the clock struck  twelve. It was the very hour when poor La Valliere was almost dying from  anguish and bitter suffering. The king’s attendants entered, it being  the hour of his retirement to his chamber; the queen, indeed, had  been waiting for more than an hour. Louis accordingly retreated to his  bedroom with a sigh; but, as he sighed, he congratulated himself on his  courage, and applauded himself for having been as firm in love as in 
