  “Enough,” said Madame; “I desire it. I prefer Mademoiselle la Baume le  Blanc’s society to that of any one else. Go, and send her to me, and  take care of your foot.”    Montalais did not wait for the order to be repeated; she returned to her  room, almost forgetting to feign lameness, wrote an answer to Malicorne,  and slipped it under the carpet. The answer simply said: “She shall.” A  Spartan could not have written more laconically.    “By this means,” thought Madame, “I will look narrowly after all on the  road; she shall sleep near me during the night, and his majesty must  be very clever if he can exchange a single word with Mademoiselle de la  Valliere.”    La Valliere received the order to set off with the same indifferent  gentleness with which she had received the order to play Cinderella.  But, inwardly, her delight was extreme, and she looked upon this change  in the princess’s resolution as a consolation which Providence had sent  her. With less penetration than Madame possessed, she attributed all  to chance. While every one, with the exception of those in disgrace,  of those who were ill, and those who were suffering from sprains, were  being driven towards Saint-Germain, Malicorne smuggled his workman into  the palace in one of M. de Saint-Aignan’s carriages, and led him into  the room corresponding to La Valliere’s. The man set to work with a  will, tempted by the splendid reward which had been promised him. As the  very best tools and implements had been selected from the reserve stock  belonging to the engineers attached to the king’s household--and among  others, a saw with teeth so sharp and well tempered that it was able,  under water even, to cut through oaken joists as hard as iron--the work  in question advanced very rapidly, and a square portion of the ceiling,  taken from between two of the joists, fell into the arms of the  delighted Saint-Aignan, Malicorne, the workman, and a confidential  valet, the latter being one brought into the world to see and hear  everything, but to repeat nothing. In accordance with a new plan  indicated by Malicorne, the opening was effected in an angle of the 
