  “I thank you, Madame; I appreciate the advice your royal highness is  good enough to give me, and I will endeavor to follow it; but one final  word, I beg.”    “Name it.”    “Should I be indiscreet in asking you the secret of this staircase, of  this trap-door; a secret, which, it seems, you have discovered?”    “Nothing more simple. For the purpose of exercising a surveillance over  the young girls who are attached to my service, I have duplicate keys of  their doors. It seemed very strange to me that M. de Saint-Aignan should  change his apartments. It seemed very strange that the king should  come to see M. de Saint-Aignan every day, and, finally, it seemed very  strange that so many things should be done during your absence, that the  very habits and customs of the court appeared changed. I do not wish  to be trifled with by the king, nor to serve as a cloak for his love  affairs; for after La Valliere, who weeps incessantly, he will take a  fancy to Montalais, who is always laughing; and then to Tonnay-Charente,  who does nothing but sing all day; to act such a part as that would be  unworthy of me. I thrust aside the scruples which my friendship for  you suggested. I discovered the secret. I have wounded your feelings, I  know, and I again entreat you to pardon me; but I had a duty to fulfil.  I have discharged it. You are now forewarned; the tempest will soon  burst; protect yourself accordingly.”    “You naturally expect, however, that a result of some kind must follow,”  replied Bragelonne, with firmness; “for you do not suppose I shall  silently accept the shame thus thrust upon me, or the treachery which  has been practiced against me?”    “You will take whatever steps in the matter you please, Monsieur Raoul,  only do not betray the source whence you derived the truth. That is all  I have to ask,--the only price I require for the service I have rendered  you.”    “Fear nothing, Madame,” said Bragelonne, with a bitter smile.    “I bribed the locksmith, in whom the lovers confided. You can just as 
