  “Because the hare will be the very one who will not be over pleased to  see M. Fouquet surrounded by all the attributes which his parliamentary  strength and power confer on him.”    “Oh! oh!” murmured the poets.    “_Quo non ascendam_,” said Conrart, “seems impossible to me, when one is  fortunate enough to wear the gown of the procureur-general.” [9]    “On the contrary, it seems so to me without that gown,” said the  obstinate Pelisson; “what is your opinion, Gourville?”    “I think the gown in question is a very good thing,” replied the latter;  “but I equally think that a million and a half is far better than the  gown.”    “And I am of Gourville’s opinion,” exclaimed Fouquet, stopping the  discussion by the expression of his own opinion, which would necessarily  bear down all the others.    “A million and a half,” Pelisson grumbled out; “now I happen to know an  Indian fable--”    “Tell it to me,” said La Fontaine; “I ought to know it too.”    “Tell it, tell it,” said the others.    “There was a tortoise, which was, as usual, well protected by its  shell,” said Pelisson; “whenever its enemies threatened it, it took  refuge within its covering. One day some one said to it, ‘You must feel  very hot in such a house as that in the summer, and you are altogether  prevented showing off your graces; there is a snake here, who will give  you a million and a half for your shell.’”    “Good!” said the superintendent, laughing.    “Well, what next?” said La Fontaine, more interested in the apologue  than in the moral.    “The tortoise sold his shell and remained naked and defenseless. A  vulture happened to see him, and being hungry, broke the tortoise’s back  with a blow of his beak and devoured it. The moral is, that M. Fouquet  should take very good care to keep his gown.”    La Fontaine understood the moral seriously. “You forget Aeschylus,” he  said, to his adversary.    “What do you mean?”    “Aeschylus was bald-headed, and a vulture--your vulture, probably--who 
