and particularly what is due to oneself.’ But Guiche, and Manicamp,  and Saint-Aignan particularly, would say to me: ‘What’s honor? Honor  consists in studying and yielding to the passions and pleasures of one’s  king.’ Honor such as that indeed, is easy and productive enough. With  honor like that, I can keep my post at the court, become a gentleman of  the chamber, and accept the command of a regiment, which may at any time  be presented to me. With honor such as that, I can be duke and peer.    “The stain which that woman has stamped upon me, the grief that has  broken my heart, the heart of the friend and playmate of her childhood,  in no way affects M. de Bragelonne, an excellent officer, a courageous  leader, who will cover himself with glory at the first encounter, and  who will become a hundred times greater than Mademoiselle de la Valliere  is to-day, the mistress of the king--for the king will not marry  her--and the more publicly he will proclaim her as his mistress, the  more opaque will grow the shadow of shame he casts upon her face, in the  guise of a crown; and in proportion as others despise, as I despise her,  I shall be gleaning honors in the field. Alas! we had walked together  side by side, she and I, during the earliest, the brightest, the most  angelic portion of our existence, hand in hand along the charming path  of life, covered with the blossoms of youth; and then, alas! we reach  a cross-road, where she separates herself from me, in which we have  to follow a different route, whereby we become more and more widely  separated from each other. And to attain the end of this path, oh,  Heaven! I am now alone, in utter despair, and crushed to the very  earth.”    Such were the sinister reflections in which Raoul indulged, when his  foot mechanically paused at the door of his own dwelling. He had reached  it without remarking the streets through which he passed, without  knowing how he had come; he pushed open the door, continued to advance,  and ascended the staircase. The staircase, as in most of the houses at  
