they would become, without ceasing to be men of honor.”    “What they did would be termed the acts of a scoundrel,” replied  Fouquet.    “Far from that; it would be merely coquetting or playing with the truth.  At all events, since you have finished with this Vanel; since you have  deprived yourself of the happiness of confounding him by repudiating  your word; and since you have given up, for the purpose of being used  against yourself, the only weapon which can ruin you--”    “My dear friend,” said Fouquet, mournfully, “you are like the teacher of  philosophy whom La Fontaine was telling us about the other day; he saw  a child drowning, and began to read him a lecture divided into three  heads.”    Aramis smiled as he said, “Philosophy--yes; teacher--yes; a drowning  child--yes; but a child can be saved--you shall see. But first of all  let us talk about business. Did you not some time ago,” he continued, as  Fouquet looked at him with a bewildered air, “speak to me about an idea  you had of giving a _fete_ at Vaux?”    “Oh!” said Fouquet, “that was when affairs were flourishing.”    “A _fete_, I believe, to which the king invited himself of his own  accord?”    “No, no, my dear prelate; a _fete_ to which M. Colbert advised the king  to invite himself.”    “Ah--exactly; as it would be a _fete_ of so costly a character that you  would be ruined in giving it.”    “Precisely so. In happier days, as I said just now, I had a kind of  pride in showing my enemies how inexhaustible my resources were; I felt  it a point of honor to strike them with amazement, by creating millions  under circumstances where they imagined nothing but bankruptcies and  failures would follow. But, at present, I am arranging my accounts with  the state, with the king, with myself; and I must now become a mean,  stingy man; I shall be able to prove to the world that I can act or  operate with my deniers as I used to do with my bags of pistoles, and  from to-morrow my equipages shall be sold, my mansions mortgaged, my 
