he did, placed the letter within it, and returned the handkerchief to  the place he had taken it from. There was only just time for La Valliere  to stretch out her hand to take hold of the handkerchief with its  valuable contents.    But Madame, who had observed everything that had passed, said to  Mademoiselle de Chatillon, “Chatillon, be good enough to pick up the  king’s handkerchief, if you please; it has fallen on the carpet.”    The young girl obeyed with the utmost precipitation, the king having  moved from his seat, and La Valliere being in no little degree nervous  and confused.    “Ah! I beg your majesty’s pardon,” said Mademoiselle de Chatillon; “you  have two handkerchiefs, I perceive.”    And the king was accordingly obliged to put into his pocket La  Valliere’s handkerchief as well as his own. He certainly gained that  souvenir of Louise, who lost, however, a copy of verses which had cost  the king ten hours’ hard labor, and which, as far as he was concerned,  was perhaps as good as a long poem. It would be impossible to describe  the king’s anger and La Valliere’s despair; but shortly afterwards a  circumstance occurred which was more than remarkable. When the king  left, in order to retire to his own apartments, Malicorne, informed  of what had passed, one can hardly tell how, was waiting in the  ante-chamber. The ante-chambers of the Palais Royal are naturally very  dark, and, in the evening, they were but indifferently lighted. Nothing  pleased the king more than this dim light. As a general rule, love,  whose mind and heart are constantly in a blaze, contemns all light,  except the sunshine of the soul. And so the ante-chamber was dark; a  page carried a torch before the king, who walked on slowly, greatly  annoyed at what had recently occurred. Malicorne passed close to the  king, almost stumbled against him in fact, and begged his forgiveness  with the profoundest humility; but the king, who was in an exceedingly  ill-temper, was very sharp in his reproof to Malicorne, who disappeared  as soon and as quietly as he possibly could. Louis retired to rest,  having had a misunderstanding with the queen; and the next day, as soon 
