to ruin; and we ought to save the honor of the body of which we are  members.”    “Exactly; and that explains why M. Fouquet will be always safe and  sound, so long as he occupies his present post,” replied Colbert.    “Thereupon,” said Vanel, “M. Gourville added, ‘If we were to do anything  out of charity to M. Fouquet, it could not be otherwise than most  humiliating to him; and he would be sure to refuse it. Let the  parliament subscribe among themselves to purchase, in a proper manner,  the post of procureur-general; in that case, all would go well; the  honor of our body would be saved, and M. Fouquet’s pride spared.’”    “That is an opening.”    “I considered it so, monseigneur.”    “Well, Monsieur Vanel, you will go at once, and find out either M.  Gourville or M. Pelisson. Do you know any other friend of M. Fouquet?”    “I know M. de la Fontaine very well.”    “La Fontaine, the rhymester?”    “Yes; he used to write verses to my wife, when M. Fouquet was one of our  friends.”    “Go to him, then, and try and procure an interview with the  superintendent.”    “Willingly--but the sum itself?”    “On the day and hour you arrange to settle the matter, Monsieur Vanel,  you shall be supplied with the money, so do not make yourself uneasy on  _that_ account.”    “Monseigneur, such munificence! You eclipse kings even--you surpass M.  Fouquet himself.”    “Stay a moment--do not let us mistake each other: I do not make you a  present of fourteen hundred thousand francs, Monsieur Vanel; for I have  children to provide for--but I will _lend_ you that sum.”    “Ask whatever interest, whatever security you please, monseigneur; I am  quite ready. And when all your requisitions are satisfied, I will still  repeat, that you surpass kings and M. Fouquet in munificence. What  conditions do you impose?”    “The repayment in eight years, and a mortgage upon the appointment  itself.”    “Certainly. Is that all?”    “Wait a moment. I reserve to myself the right of purchasing the post 
