bend and crouch before you? Do you wish men to love you, or to be afraid  of you? If you prefer baseness, intrigue, cowardice, say so at once,  sire, and we will leave you,--we who are the only individuals who are  left,--nay, I will say more, the only models of the valor of former  times; we who have done our duty, and have exceeded, perhaps, in courage  and in merit, the men already great for posterity. Choose, sire! and  that, too, without delay. Whatever relics remain to you of the great  nobility, guard them with a jealous eye; you will never be deficient in  courtiers. Delay not--and send me to the Bastile with my friend; for, if  you did not know how to listen to the Comte de la Fere, whose voice is  the sweetest and noblest in all the world when honor is the theme; if  you do not know how to listen to D’Artagnan, the frankest and honestest  voice of sincerity, you are a bad king, and to-morrow will be a poor  king. And learn from me, sire, that bad kings are hated by their people,  and poor kings are driven ignominiously away.’ That is what I had to say  to you, sire; you were wrong to drive me to say it.”    The king threw himself back in his chair, cold as death, and as livid as  a corpse. Had a thunderbolt fallen at his feet, he could not have been  more astonished; he seemed as if his respiration had utterly ceased,  and that he was at the point of death. The honest voice of sincerity,  as D’Artagnan had called it, had pierced through his heart like a  sword-blade.    D’Artagnan had said all he had to say. Comprehending the king’s anger,  he drew his sword, and, approaching Louis XIV. respectfully, he placed  it on the table. But the king, with a furious gesture, thrust aside  the sword, which fell on the ground and rolled to D’Artagnan’s feet.  Notwithstanding the perfect mastery which D’Artagnan exercised over  himself, he, too, in his turn, became pale, and, trembling with  indignation, said: “A king may disgrace a soldier,--he may exile him,  and may even condemn him to death; but were he a hundred times a king, 
