 successor.”    “Then,” said Aramis, “you know that the last reigning monarch was Louis  XIII.?”    “I do,” answered the youth, slightly reddening.    “Well, he was a prince full of noble ideas and great projects, always,  alas! deferred by the trouble of the times and the dread struggle that  his minister Richelieu had to maintain against the great nobles of  France. The king himself was of a feeble character, and died young and  unhappy.”    “I know it.”    “He had been long anxious about having a heir; a care which weighs  heavily on princes, who desire to leave behind them more than one pledge  that their best thoughts and works will be continued.”    “Did the king, then, die childless?” asked the prisoner, smiling.    “No, but he was long without one, and for a long while thought he should  be the last of his race. This idea had reduced him to the depths of  despair, when suddenly, his wife, Anne of Austria--”    The prisoner trembled.    “Did you know,” said Aramis, “that Louis XIII.’s wife was called Anne of  Austria?”    “Continue,” said the young man, without replying to the question.    “When suddenly,” resumed Aramis, “the queen announced an interesting  event. There was great joy at the intelligence, and all prayed for her  happy delivery. On the 5th of September, 1638, she gave birth to a son.”    Here Aramis looked at his companion, and thought he observed him turning  pale. “You are about to hear,” said Aramis, “an account which few indeed  could now avouch; for it refers to a secret which they imagined buried  with the dead, entombed in the abyss of the confessional.”    “And you will tell me this secret?” broke in the youth.    “Oh!” said Aramis, with unmistakable emphasis, “I do not know that I  ought to risk this secret by intrusting it to one who has no desire to  quit the Bastile.”    “I hear you, monsieur.”    “The queen, then, gave birth to a son. But while the court was rejoicing  over the event, when the king had shown the new-born child to the 
