 through and by my means--formed in my honor a concert of praise and  kindly actions. In the least disfavor, these humbler voices accompanied  in harmonious accents the murmur of my own heart. Isolation I have never  yet known. Poverty (a phantom I have sometimes beheld, clad in rags,  awaiting me at the end of my journey through life)--poverty has been the  specter with which many of my own friends have trifled for years past,  which they poetize and caress, and which has attracted me towards them.  Poverty! I accept it, acknowledge it, receive it, as a disinherited  sister; for poverty is neither solitude, nor exile, nor imprisonment.  Is it likely I shall ever be poor, with such friends as Pelisson, as  La Fontaine, as Moliere? with such a mistress as--Oh! if you knew how  utterly lonely and desolate I feel at this moment, and how you, who  separate me from all I love, seem to resemble the image of solitude, of  annihilation--death itself.”    “But I have already told you, Monsieur Fouquet,” replied D’Artagnan,  moved to the depths of his soul, “that you are woefully exaggerating.  The king likes you.”    “No, no,” said Fouquet, shaking his head.    “M. Colbert hates you.”    “M. Colbert! What does that matter to me?”    “He will ruin you.”    “Ah! I defy him to do that, for I am ruined already.”    At this singular confession of the superintendent, D’Artagnan cast  his glance all round the room; and although he did not open his lips,  Fouquet understood him so thoroughly, that he added: “What can be done  with such wealth of substance as surrounds us, when a man can no longer  cultivate his taste for the magnificent? Do you know what good the  greater part of the wealth and the possessions which we rich enjoy,  confer upon us? merely to disgust us, by their very splendor even, with  everything which does not equal it! Vaux! you will say, and the wonders  of Vaux! What of it? What boot these wonders? If I am ruined, how shall  I fill with water the urns which my Naiads bear in their arms, or  force the air into the lungs of my Tritons? To be rich enough, Monsieur 
