At this point in Aramis’s gloomy analysis, a bird of night uttered from  the depths of the forest that prolonged and plaintive cry which makes  every creature tremble.    “I will exile the deposed king,” said Philippe, shuddering; “‘twill be  more human.”    “The king’s good pleasure will decide the point,” said Aramis. “But has  the problem been well put? Have I brought out of the solution according  to the wishes or the foresight of your royal highness?”    “Yes, monsieur, yes; you have forgotten nothing--except, indeed, two  things.”    “The first?”    “Let us speak of it at once, with the same frankness we have already  conversed in. Let us speak of the causes which may bring about the ruin  of all the hopes we have conceived. Let us speak of the risks we are  running.”    “They would be immense, infinite, terrific, insurmountable, if, as I  have said, all things did not concur to render them of absolutely no  account. There is no danger either for you or for me, if the constancy  and intrepidity of your royal highness are equal to that perfection of  resemblance to your brother which nature has bestowed upon you. I repeat  it, there are no dangers, only obstacles; a word, indeed, which I find  in all languages, but have always ill-understood, and, were I king,  would have obliterated as useless and absurd.”    “Yes, indeed, monsieur; there is a very serious obstacle, an  insurmountable danger, which you are forgetting.”    “Ah!” said Aramis.    “There is conscience, which cries aloud; remorse, that never dies.”    “True, true,” said the bishop; “there is a weakness of heart of which  you remind me. You are right, too, for that, indeed, is an immense  obstacle. The horse afraid of the ditch, leaps into the middle of it,  and is killed! The man who trembling crosses his sword with that of  another leaves loopholes whereby his enemy has him in his power.”    “Have you a brother?” said the young man to Aramis.    “I am alone in the world,” said the latter, with a hard, dry voice.    
