  “I would rather die!” replied Fouquet; “I shall suffer less.”    D’Artagnan, drunk with despair, hurled his pistol to the ground. “I  will take you alive!” said he; and by a prodigy of skill which this  incomparable horseman alone was capable, he threw his horse forward to  within ten paces of the white horse; already his hand was stretched out  to seize his prey.    “Kill me! kill me!” cried Fouquet, “‘twould be more humane!”    “No! alive--alive!” murmured the captain.    At this moment his horse made a false step for the second time, and  Fouquet’s again took the lead. It was an unheard-of spectacle, this  race between two horses which now only kept alive by the will of their  riders. It might be said that D’Artagnan rode, carrying his horse along  between his knees. To the furious gallop had succeeded the fast trot,  and that had sunk to what might be scarcely called a trot at all.  But the chase appeared equally warm in the two fatigued _athletoe_.  D’Artagnan, quite in despair, seized his second pistol, and cocked it.    “At your horse! not at you!” cried he to Fouquet. And he fired. The  animal was hit in the quarters--he made a furious bound, and plunged  forward. At that moment D’Artagnan’s horse fell dead.    “I am dishonored!” thought the musketeer; “I am a miserable wretch! for  pity’s sake, M. Fouquet, throw me one of your pistols, that I may blow  out my brains!” But Fouquet rode away.    “For mercy’s sake! for mercy’s sake!” cried D’Artagnan; “that which you  will not do at this moment, I myself will do within an hour, but here,  upon this road, I should die bravely; I should die esteemed; do me that  service, M. Fouquet!”    M. Fouquet made no reply, but continued to trot on. D’Artagnan began to  run after his enemy. Successively he threw away his hat, his coat, which  embarrassed him, and then the sheath of his sword, which got between his  legs as he was running. The sword in his hand itself became too heavy,  and he threw it after the sheath. The white horse began to rattle in 
