 _chasse-maree_ come from Toulon under orders. The impression they  experienced on landing was a singularly pleasing one. The island seemed  loaded with flowers and fruits. In its cultivated part it served as a  garden for the governor. Orange, pomegranate, and fig trees bent beneath  the weight of their golden or purple fruits. All round this garden, in  the uncultivated parts, red partridges ran about in conveys among the  brambles and tufts of junipers, and at every step of the comte and Raoul  a terrified rabbit quitted his thyme and heath to scuttle away to the  burrow. In fact, this fortunate isle was uninhabited. Flat, offering  nothing but a tiny bay for the convenience of embarkation, and under the  protection of the governor, who went shares with them, smugglers made  use of it as a provisional _entrepot_, at the expense of not killing the  game or devastating the garden. With this compromise, the governor was  in a situation to be satisfied with a garrison of eight men to guard his  fortress, in which twelve cannons accumulated coats of moldy green. The  governor was a sort of happy farmer, harvesting wines, figs, oil,  and oranges, preserving his citrons and _cedrates_ in the sun of his  casemates. The fortress, encircled by a deep ditch, its only guardian,  arose like three heads upon turrets connected with each other by  terraces covered with moss.    Athos and Raoul wandered for some time round the fences of the garden  without finding any one to introduce them to the governor. They ended by  making their own way into the garden. It was at the hottest time of  the day. Each living thing sought its shelter under grass or stone. The  heavens spread their fiery veils as if to stifle all noises, to envelop  all existences; the rabbit under the broom, the fly under the leaf,  slept as the wave did beneath the heavens. Athos saw nothing living but  a soldier, upon the terrace beneath the second and third court, who was  carrying a basket of provisions on his head. This man returned almost  immediately without his basket, and disappeared in the shade of his  sentry-box. Athos supposed he must have been carrying dinner to some 
