penetrated by it, and replied to him by a severe look. Raoul  comprehended it all; he recovered his calmness, and was so guarded, that  not another word escaped him. The duke at length rose, on observing the  advanced hour, and said, with animation, “I am in great haste, but if I  am told I have lost time in talking with a friend, I will reply I have  gained--on the balance--a most excellent recruit.”    “Pardon me, monsieur le duc,” interrupted Raoul, “do not tell the king  so, for it is not the king I wish to serve.”    “Eh! my friend, whom, then, will you serve? The times are past when  you might have said, ‘I belong to M. de Beaufort.’ No, nowadays, we all  belong to the king, great or small. Therefore, if you serve on board my  vessels, there can be nothing equivocal about it, my dear vicomte; it  will be the king you will serve.”    Athos waited with a kind of impatient joy for the reply about to be made  to this embarrassing question by Raoul, the intractable enemy of the  king, his rival. The father hoped that the obstacle would overcome the  desire. He was thankful to M. de Beaufort, whose lightness or generous  reflection had thrown an impediment in the way of the departure of a  son, now his only joy. But Raoul, still firm and tranquil, replied:  “Monsieur le duc, the objection you make I have already considered in my  mind. I will serve on board your vessels, because you do me the honor  to take me with you; but I shall there serve a more powerful master than  the king: I shall serve God!”    “God! how so?” said the duke and Athos together.    “My intention is to make profession, and become a knight of Malta,”  added Bragelonne, letting fall, one by one, words more icy than the  drops which fall from the bare trees after the tempests of winter. [4]    Under this blow Athos staggered and the prince himself was moved.  Grimaud uttered a heavy groan, and let fall the bottle, which was broken  without anybody paying attention. M. de Beaufort looked the young man in 
