“It is a pack of hounds,” said Porthos; “the dogs are on a scent.”    “Who can be hunting at such a moment as this?” said Aramis.    “And this way, particularly,” continued Porthos, “where they might  expect the army of the royalists.”    “The noise comes nearer. Yes, you are right, Porthos, the dogs are on a  scent. But, Yves!” cried Aramis, “come here! come here!”    Yves ran towards him, letting fall the cylinder which he was about to  place under the boat when the bishop’s call interrupted him.    “What is the meaning of this hunt, skipper?” said Porthos.    “Eh! monseigneur, I cannot understand it,” replied the Breton. “It is  not at such a moment that the Seigneur de Locmaria would hunt. No, and  yet the dogs--”    “Unless they have escaped from the kennel.”    “No,” said Goenne, “they are not the Seigneur de Locmaria’s hounds.”    “In common prudence,” said Aramis, “let us go back into the grotto; the  voices evidently draw nearer, we shall soon know what we have to trust  to.”    They re-entered, but had scarcely proceeded a hundred steps in the  darkness, when a noise like the hoarse sigh of a creature in distress  resounded through the cavern, and breathless, rapid, terrified, a fox  passed like a flash of lightning before the fugitives, leaped over  the boat and disappeared, leaving behind its sour scent, which was  perceptible for several seconds under the low vaults of the cave.    “The fox!” cried the Bretons, with the glad surprise of born hunters.    “Accursed mischance!” cried the bishop, “our retreat is discovered.”    “How so?” said Porthos; “are you afraid of a fox?”    “Eh! my friend, what do you mean by that? why do you specify the fox? It  is not the fox alone. _Pardieu!_ But don’t you know, Porthos, that after  the foxes come hounds, and after hounds men?”    Porthos hung his head. As though to confirm the words of Aramis, they  heard the yelping pack approach with frightful swiftness upon the trail.  Six foxhounds burst at once upon the little heath, with mingling yelps 
