 Gourville started, and mounted to the deck, in order to obtain a better  view.    Fouquet did not go up with him, but said to Gourville, with restrained  mistrust: “See what it is, dear friend.”    The lighter had just passed the elbow. It came on so fast, that behind  it might be plainly seen the white wake illumined with the fires of the  day.    “How they go,” repeated the skipper, “how they go! They must be well  paid! I did not think,” he added, “that oars of wood could behave better  than ours, but yonder oarsmen prove the contrary.”    “Well they may,” said one of the rowers, “they are twelve, and we but  eight.”    “Twelve rowers!” replied Gourville, “twelve! impossible.”    The number of eight rowers for a lighter had never been exceeded, even  for the king. This honor had been paid to monsieur le surintendant, more  for the sake of haste than of respect.    “What does it mean?” said Gourville, endeavoring to distinguish beneath  the tent, which was already apparent, travelers which the most piercing  eye could not yet have succeeded in discovering.    “They must be in a hurry, for it is not the king,” said the patron.    Fouquet shuddered.    “By what sign do you know that it is not the king?” said Gourville.    “In the first place, because there is no white flag with fleurs-de-lis,  which the royal lighter always carries.”    “And then,” said Fouquet, “because it is impossible it should be the  king, Gourville, as the king was still in Paris yesterday.”    Gourville replied to the surintendant by a look which said: “You were  there yourself yesterday.”    “And by what sign do you make out they are in such haste?” added he, for  the sake of gaining time.    “By this, monsieur,” said the patron; “these people must have set out a  long while after us, and they have already nearly overtaken us.”    “Bah!” said Gourville, “who told you that they do not come from  Beaugency or from Moit even?”    “We have seen no lighter of that shape, except at Orleans. It comes from 
