 they will sink us?”    “But, perhaps,” the patron ventured to say, “perhaps under cover of  night, we could escape them.”    “Oh!” said Aramis, “they have, no doubt, Greek fire with which to  lighten their own course and ours likewise.”    At the same moment, as if the vessel was responsive to the appeal of  Aramis, a second cloud of smoke mounted slowly to the heavens, and from  the bosom of that cloud sparkled an arrow of flame, which described a  parabola like a rainbow, and fell into the sea, where it continued to  burn, illuminating a space of a quarter of a league in diameter.    The Bretons looked at each other in terror. “You see plainly,” said  Aramis, “it will be better to wait for them.”    The oars dropped from the hands of the sailors, and the bark, ceasing  to make way, rocked motionless upon the summits of the waves. Night came  on, but still the ship drew nearer. It might be imagined it redoubled  its speed with darkness. From time to time, as a vulture rears its head  out of its nest, the formidable Greek fire darted from its sides, and  cast its flame upon the ocean like an incandescent snowfall. At last  it came within musket-shot. All the men were on deck, arms in hand; the  cannoniers were at their guns, the matches burning. It might be thought  they were about to board a frigate and to fight a crew superior in  number to their own, not to attempt the capture of a canoe manned by  four people.    “Surrender!” cried the commander of the _balancelle_, with the aid of  his speaking-trumpet.    The sailors looked at Aramis. Aramis made a sign with his head. Yves  waved a white cloth at the end of a gaff. This was like striking their  flag. The pursuer came on like a race-horse. It launched a fresh Greek  fire, which fell within twenty paces of the little canoe, and threw a  light upon them as white as sunshine.    “At the first sign of resistance,” cried the commander of the  _balancelle_, “fire!” The soldiers brought their muskets to the present. 
