   But this officer was mistaken; D’Artagnan in the last four years had  lived a dozen. Age had printed its pitiless claws at each angle of his  eyes; his brow was bald; his hands, formerly brown and nervous, were  getting white, as if the blood had half forgotten them.    D’Artagnan accosted the officers with the shade of affability which  distinguishes superiors, and received in turn for his courtesy two most  respectful bows.    “Ah! what a lucky chance to see you here, Monsieur d’Artagnan!” cried  the falconer.    “It is rather I who should say that, messieurs,” replied the captain,  “for nowadays, the king makes more frequent use of his musketeers than  of his falcons.”    “Ah! it is not as it was in the good old times,” sighed the falconer.  “Do you remember, Monsieur d’Artagnan, when the late king flew the pie  in the vineyards beyond Beaugence? Ah! _dame!_ you were not the captain  of the musketeers at that time, Monsieur d’Artagnan.” [7]    “And you were nothing but under-corporal of the tiercelets,” replied  D’Artagnan, laughing. “Never mind that, it was a good time, seeing  that it is always a good time when we are young. Good day, monsieur the  keeper of the harriers.”    “You do me honor, monsieur le comte,” said the latter. D’Artagnan made  no reply. The title of comte had hardly struck him; D’Artagnan had been  a comte four years.    “Are you not very much fatigued with the long journey you have taken,  monsieur le capitaine?” continued the falconer. “It must be full two  hundred leagues from hence to Pignerol.”    “Two hundred and sixty to go, and as many to return,” said D’Artagnan,  quietly.    “And,” said the falconer, “is _he_ well?”    “Who?” asked D’Artagnan.    “Why, poor M. Fouquet,” continued the falconer, in a low voice. The  keeper of the harriers had prudently withdrawn.    “No,” replied D’Artagnan, “the poor man frets terribly; he cannot  comprehend how imprisonment can be a favor; he says that parliament  absolved him by banishing him, and banishment is, or should be, liberty.  He cannot imagine that they had sworn his death, and that to save his 
