Mohune, in the dreadful wars against King Charles the First, had deserted  the allegiance of his house and supported the cause of the rebels. So  being made Governor of Carisbrooke Castle for the Parliament, he became  there the King's jailer, but was false to his trust. For the King,  carrying constantly hidden about his person a great diamond which had  once been given him by his brother King of France, Mohune got wind of  this jewel, and promised that if it were given him he would wink at His  Majesty's escape. Then this wicked man, having taken the bribe, plays  traitor again, comes with a file of soldiers at the hour appointed for  the King's flight, finds His Majesty escaping through a window, has him  away to a stricter ward, and reports to the Parliament that the King's  escape is only prevented by Colonel Mohune's watchfulness. But how true,  as Mr. Glennie said, that we should not be envious against the ungodly,  against the man that walketh after evil counsels. Suspicion fell on  Colonel Mohune; he was removed from his Governorship, and came back to  his home at Moonfleet. There he lived in seclusion, despised by both  parties in the State, until he died, about the time of the happy  Restoration of King Charles the Second. But even after his death he could  not get rest; for men said that he had hid somewhere that treasure given  him to permit the King's escape, and that not daring to reclaim it, had  let the secret die with him, and so must needs come out of his grave to  try to get at it again. Mr. Glennie would never say whether he believed  the tale or not, pointing out that apparitions both of good and evil  spirits are related in Holy Scripture, but that the churchyard was an  unlikely spot for Colonel Mohune to seek his treasure in; for had it been  buried there, he would have had a hundred chances to have it up in his  lifetime. However this may be, though I was brave as a lion by day, and  used indeed to frequent the churchyard, because there was the widest  view of the sea to be obtained from it, yet no reward would have taken me 
