and Elzevir's face grew black as night; but the bailiff and clerk showed  no surprise, not knowing the terms on which persons in our village stood  to one another, and thinking it natural that someone should come in to  see the pin drop, and the end of an ancient custom. Indeed, Maskew seemed  to know the bailiff, for he passed the time of day with him, and was then  for sitting down at the table without taking any notice of Elzevir or me.  But just as he began to seat himself, Block shouted out, 'You are no  welcome visitor in my house, and I would sooner see your back than see  your face, but sit at this table you shall not.' I knew what he meant;  for on that table they had laid out David's body, and with that he struck  his fist upon the board so smart as to make the bailiff jump and nearly  bring the pin out of the candle.    'Heyday, sirs,' says Mr. Bailiff, astonished, 'let us have no brawling  here, the more so as this worshipful gentleman is a magistrate and  something of a friend of mine.' Yet Maskew refrained from sitting, but  stood by the bailiff's chair, turning white, and not red, as he did with  Mr. Glennie; and muttered something, that he had as lief stand as sit,  and that it should soon be Block's turn to ask sitting-room of _him_.    I was wondering what possibly could have brought Maskew there, when the  bailiff, who was ill at ease, said--'Come, Mr. Clerk, the pin hath but  another minute's hold; rehearse what has been done, for I must get this  lease delivered and off to Bridport, where much business waits.'    So the clerk read in a singsong voice that the property of the duchy of  Cornwall, called the Mohune Arms, an inn or tavern, with all its land,  tenements, and appurtenances, situate in the Parish of St. Sebastian,  Moonfleet, having been offered on lease for five years, would be let to  Elzevir Block at a rent of 12 per annum, unless anyone offered a higher  rent before the pin fell from the candle.    There was no one to make another offer, and the bailiff said to Elzevir, 
