little enough clothes upon my back to keep off rain and cold. On either  side rode guards on horseback, with loaded flint-locks across the  saddlebow, and long whips in their hands with which they let fly at any  laggard; though 'twas hard enough for men to walk where the mud was over  the horses' fetlocks. I had no chance to speak to Elzevir all the  journey, and indeed spoke nothing at all, for those to whom I was chained  were brute beasts rather than men, and spoke only in Dutch to boot.    There was but little of the building of the fortress begun when we  reached Ymeguen, and the task that we were set to was the digging of the  trenches and other earthworks. I believe that there were five hundred men  employed in this way, and all of them condemned like us to galley-work  for life. We were divided into squads of twenty-five, but Elzevir was  drafted to another squad and a different part of the workings, so I saw  him no more except at odd times, now and again, when our gangs met, and  we could exchange a word or two in passing.    Thus I had no solace of any company but my own, and was driven to  thinking, and to occupy my mind with the recollection of the past. And at  first the life of my boyhood, now lost for ever, was constantly present  even in my dreams, and I would wake up thinking that I was at school  again under Mr. Glennie, or talking in the summer-house with Grace, or  climbing Weatherbeech Hill with the salt Channel breeze singing through  the trees. But alas! these things faded when I opened my eyes, and knew  the foul-smelling wood-hut and floor of fetid straw where fifty of us lay  in fetters every night; I say I dreamt these things at first, but by  degrees remembrance grew blunted and the images less clear, and even  these sweet, sad visions of the night came to me less often. Thus life  became a weary round, in which month followed month, season followed  season, year followed year, and brought always the same eternal  profitless-work. And yet the work was merciful, for it dulled the biting 
