  CHAPTER XII.    THE ARROW      Slowly, silently, two canoes glided along the still, dark water of a  gloomy creek over-arched by the interlaced limbs of lofty trees.    The first, propelled by the slow-dipping blades of two Brazilian  bushmen, seemed to be seeking something; for it nosed along with  frequent pauses of the paddles, during which it drifted almost to a stop  while its crew searched the solemn jungle depths reaching away from the  right-hand shore. The second, carrying three bronzed and bearded men of  another continent, was only trailing the leader. It moved and paused  like the first, but the recurrent scrutiny of the farther gloom by its  paddlers was that of men who saw only a meaningless, monotonous bulk of  buttresses and trunks and tangle of looping lianas. In this dimness and  bewildering chaos the trio might as well have been blind. The eyes of  the tiny fleet were in the first boat.    The progress of the dugouts was almost stealthy. Not a paddle thumped or  splashed, not a voice spoke. They moved with the alert caution born not  of fear, but of wary readiness for any sudden event--like prowling  jungle creatures which, themselves seeking quarry, must be ever on guard  lest they become the hunted instead of the hunters.    For the past two days they had moved thus. The last fresh meat had been  shot miles down the river, where a well-placed bullet from the rifle of  McKay had downed a fat swamp deer. Since that day not a gun had been  fired. The rations now were tough jerked beef and monkey meat, slabs of  salt pirarucu fish, and farinha, varied by tinned delicacies from the  stores of the Americans. Henceforth gunfire was taboo unless it should  become necessary in self-defense.    At length the fore canoe halted with an abruptness that told of back  strokes of the blades hidden under water. McKay, bowman of the trailing  craft, also backed water, while his mates held their paddles rigid. The  two boats drifted together.    "This is the place," Lourenço said, speaking low.    The Americans, scanning the shore, saw nothing to differentiate the spot 
