hammock, where he was comparatively safe--looked askance at it when told  what it was, and was only partly reassured by the information that  termites were eaters of wood rather than of flesh. After sleep had  embraced the rest of the camp he still was uneasy, lifting his net at  long intervals and squinting at the moonlit mound as if expecting a  horde of pincer-jawed insects to erupt from it and charge him. And  during one of these inspections he saw something totally unexpected.    From the black shadows of the forest had emerged another shadow, so  grotesque and misshapen that it seemed a figment of indigestion and  weird dreams--a thing from whose shaggy body protruded what appeared to  be only a long tubular snout where a head should be, and which looked to  be overbalanced at the other end by a great mass of hair. It stood stone  still, and for the moment Tim could not decide which end of it was head  and which was tail, or even whether it were not double-tailed and  headless. Then, slowly, the apparition moved.    Into that hard-packed earth it dug huge hooked claws, and from its  tapering muzzle a wormlike tongue licked about, gathering the outrushing  white ants into its gullet. For minutes Tim lay blinking at it,  wondering if he really saw it.    Then, picking up his rifle, he slipped outside his net and advanced on  the creature.    The animal turned, sat back on its great tail, lifted its terrible  claws, and waited. Six feet away, just out of its reach, Tim stopped and  stared anew. Then he grinned.    "You win, feller," he informed the beast. "What ye are I dunno, but any  critter that's got the guts to ramble right into camp and offer to gimme  a battle is too good a sport for me to shoot. Help yourself to all the  ants in the world, for all o' me. I'm goin' back to bed. Bon sewer,  monseer."    Wherewith, still grinning, but warily watching, he backed until sure the  big invader would not spring at him. Knowing nothing of ant bears, he  did not know it was hardly a springing animal. 
