   The poised knife hissed through the air at José.    Out from the crew house shot a streak of fire and a smashing rifle  report.    José dodged, staggered, screeched in feline fury, the knife buried in  his left arm.    McKay grunted suddenly, fell, lay still.    "God!" yelled Tim. "Cap's gone! Clean 'em, Looey!"    With the words he leaped aside and pulled his pistol, just as another  rifle flare stabbed out from the other hut and a bullet whisked through  the space where he had stood. An instant later he was pouring a stream  of lead at the spot whence the burning powder had leaped.    Knives flashing, teeth gleaming, the other paddlers charged across the  ten-foot space between the huts.    José, his left arm helpless, but his deadly right hand still gripping  his knife, hurled himself on Julio, who had seized a machete from  somewhere.    Knowlton slammed a bullet between the eyes of the foremost _boga_, who  pitched headlong. He swung the muzzle to the other man's chest--yanked  at the trigger--got no response. The gun was jammed.    With a triumphant snarl the blood-crazed Peruvian closed in, slashing  for the throat. Knowlton slipped aside, evaded the thrust, swung the  pistol down hard on his assailant's head. The man reeled, thrust again  blindly, missed. Knowlton crashed his dumb gun down again. It struck  fair on the temple. The man collapsed.    Tim was charging across the open at the crew house. José and Julio were  locked in a death grapple. No other living man, except Knowlton, still  stood upright. Stooping, he peered into the red-dyed face of McKay. Then  he laid a hand on the captain's chest. Faint but regular, he felt the  heart beating.    "Thank God!" he breathed. With a wary eye on the battling Peruvians he  swiftly raised the captain and put him into Tim's hammock. As he turned  back to the fight Tim emerged from the other hut, carrying a body, which  he dropped and swiftly inspected. At the same moment the fight of José  and Julio ended.    With a choked scream Julio dropped, writhed, doubled up. Then he lay 
