 do the talking.    "Do not hold a gun in a threatening manner or draw pistols unless you  must fight. Then kill.    "Above all, pay no attention to their women.    "Now we go. I lead."    He turned and strode away into the fog as easily and surely as if  cat-eyed and cat-footed. Pedro swung nonchalantly after him. The others  followed in order, hitching at their backstraps.    The ghostly haze about them now was paler, but through the interstices  overhead came no glint of sunshine, nor even the glow of a clear dawn.  The whole sky evidently was overcast, and around the marching men the  gloom still lay thick. Yet Lourenço's eyes seemed to bore through the  shades and the dark shroud blurring the trunks, for his steady gait did  not falter. The little file hung close together, for all knew that any  man straggling would be instantly lost.    Worming around gigantic columns, crawling over rotting trunks long laid  low, changing direction abruptly when blocked by some great butt too  high to be scaled, sinking ankle-deep in clinging mud, the venturesome  band wound along through the wilderness. Repeated glances at his compass  showed McKay that the general trend of the march was southeast; but the  impassable obstacles encountered at frequent intervals necessitated not  only detours, but sometimes actual back-tracking.    "Walk four miles to advance one," was his thought. And for some time it  seemed that such was the case. But then the ground changed, the light  improved, the trees thinned, and the undergrowth became more dense--and,  paradoxically, the rate of progress improved.    This was because the smaller growth gave the two leaders a chance to cut  their way straight onward instead of dodging about; and cut they did.  Their machetes swung with untiring energy, opening a path through what  seemed an impenetrable tangle. Now every yard of movement was a yard  gained. But the ground was rising and the struggle up some of the sharp  slopes winded more than one man.    Then the slope dipped the other way, and they slipped down into a ravine  where water gleamed darkly. Here a halt was called while the leaders 
