prevent trouble is to make the other man realize what may happen to him  if he starts it. Also he has his orders from Monitaya to stay with us at  all times, and he will follow that order even if you, Capitao, try to  change it. Now we go together to the chief."    He nodded to Tucu, who grunted to the Red Bone leader. The hatchet-face  in turn shouted something to the men behind. Slowly they drew apart into  two groups.    "You are the leader, Capitao," suggested Lourenço. Promptly McKay  marched forward, head up, eyes front, face bleak. The rest followed,  Tucu falling in behind McKay when the captain passed him. Preceded by  the Red Bone spokesman, the line advanced between the two bodies of  copper-skins and swung along the evil-smelling avenue to its upper end.    There, in the very center of the loop joining the two rows of huts, was  a house twice as big as any other. From its doorway the inhabitant of  that house could watch the whole life of the Red Bone town. Obviously it  was the home of the chief. At its door a pair of warriors stood guard,  but of the ruler himself there was no sign.    Ten paces from it the thin-featured leader stopped and motioned to McKay  to halt. As the captain and the line behind him did so he stalked  onward, passed through the doorway, and faded from sight in the dimness  beyond. With one accord the members of the visiting party looked around  them.    The street behind now was filled with the mass of Red Bone warriors who  had trooped after the column. All exit in that direction was blockaded.  But the ex-officers noted that between the houses were spaces each wide  enough to hold a couple of men, and in an undertone McKay gave defensive  instructions to Lourenço.    "If fighting starts, have the Mayorunas take cover along these houses on  each side. We who have guns will use the chief's house. We can sweep the  whole street from there. You two fellows capture the chief alive if  possible. He'll be more useful as a hostage than as a corpse." 
