the houses to the creek. Meanwhile the women and the older children were  weaving flimsy covers from withes and vines. As soon as a tunnel was  completed it was masked outside the walls by one of these covers, on  which a thin layer of earth and grass was laid. The two trenches were  likewise concealed, and the loose earth was carried inside the house and  packed solidly against the walls flanking the doors.    At sundown of the fourth day the work was ended. And so well was it done  that when the great chief, his subchiefs, and his foreign allies went on  a final tour of inspection they could find no sign that the houses were  honeycombed with exits or that the ground in front of the little  entrances was not solid at all points.    "Rod and I took the idea from those pit traps out on the trails,"  Knowlton explained for the dozenth time. "Holes are covered to look  exactly like the rest of the ground. Every man of us has to be inside  when the enemy arrives, but we have to get out quick when the right time  comes, so we go under the walls. And can't you see those brave women  stealers go kerplunk down into the trenches? Oh boy!"    Whereat Lourenço and José smiled as if enjoying a secret joke. They  were. For they knew something of which the Americans were not  aware--that Monitaya had improved on the trench-trap idea of the whites  by studding the bottom of those trenches with barbed araya bones smeared  with wurali.    "Yeah, and I figger them guys 'll git some jolt when these houses, which  'ain't got nobody in 'em but women and kids, begin to spit lead out o'  loopholes and spew screechin' cannibals up out o' the ground. Gosh! I  wouldn't miss seein' Sworn-off's face for a keg o' beer--and that's  sayin' somethin'."    Wherein Tim expressed the general sentiment.    So ended the fourth day. When the fifth broke no man showed himself  outside the walls. Except the few outposts, every male of the Monitaya  _malocas_ bided within, awaiting with growing tension the arrival of the  
