 tones, peremptorily squelched him he insisted on at least going to the  door to watch his comrades start the journey from which they might or  might not return. Nor did he take advantage of his chance to hug the  girls on the way.    With one arm slung over the shoulders of a wiry young warrior who  grinned proudly at the honor of being selected to help a guest of the  great chief, he followed the departing column out into the sunshine,  where the entire tribe was assembled. And when the stalwart band had  filed into the shadows of the trees and vanished he stood for a time  unseeing and gulping at something in his throat.    Straight away along a vague path beginning at the rear of the _malocas_  marched the twenty-four, the two northerners bending under the weight of  their packs, the pair of Brazilians sweeping the jungle with practiced  eyes, the score of Mayorunas striding velvet footed, resplendent in  brilliant new paint and headdresses, armed with the most powerful  weapons of their tribe, and loftily conscious of the fact that they were  chosen as Monitaya's best. Savage and civilized, each man was fit,  alert, formidable. Nowhere in the loosely joined chain was a weak link.    Before the departure the Americans had been at some trouble to rid  themselves of Yuara, who, with his men, had tarried at the Monitaya  _malocas_ during Tim's sickness. While Knowlton was giving his ripped  arm a final dressing he had calmly announced his intention of joining  the expedition into the Red Bone country, and it had taken some skillful  argument by Lourenço to dissuade him without arousing his anger. All  four of the adventurers would gladly have taken him along had he not  been hampered by his injury, but, under the ruthless rule barring all  men not in possession of all their strength, he had to be left.    Now, as on the previous jungle marches, the way was led by two of the  tribesmen, followed by the Brazilians and the Americans, after whom the  main body of the escort strode in column. The leader and guide, one  Tucu, was a veteran hunter, fighter, and bushranger, who had been more 
