 leave the camp and go upstream for a time. At this Tucu's eyes dwelt on  his, veered to the lights of the town, and returned. In them was a  plain, though unspoken, question. The bushman ignored it and strolled  back to his _tambo_.    The moon sailed higher. The animal uproar of early night began to  diminish. The fire, almost buried under slow-burning wood whose acrid  smoke alleviated the insect pests, smoldered dull red. McKay and  Knowlton drew lots for the first sleep, the captain winning and promptly  getting under his net. In the Mayoruna shelter all was dark and silent,  each man sleeping lightly with one hand on a weapon. The two Brazilians  also were out of sight in their hut.    Up and down, a barely distinguishable figure, Knowlton passed slowly  with holster unbuttoned and rifle cocked, eyes turning periodically to  the Red Bone outpost and ears intent to pick any unusual sound out of  the night noise. Gradually the small lights of the town faded out. To  all appearance, sleep had whelmed it for the night. The watchers on the  farther shore stirred a little at times, but the blot they made in the  moonshine remained fixed in the same spot. The only moving things were  the khaki-clad sentinel and the blazing fireflies.    Another hour rolled slowly by. The sentinel stopped and stood at a  corner of the _tambo_. Now was as good a time as any for the Brazilians  to start their perilous reconnaissance. Perhaps they had gone to sleep.  He squinted at their hammocks. Yes, they were occupied. Stepping softly  to the hammock of Pedro, he lifted the net to whisper to the occupant.  Then he stared, dropped the net, and lifted Lourenço's curtain. A soft,  self-derisive chuckle sounded in his throat as he stole out again.    The hammocks were occupied, yes; but only by packs and rifles. Armed  only with machetes, the two bushmen now were--where? He did not even  know when or which way they had gone. Fine sentinel, wasn't he, to let  two full-grown men sneak away right under his nose? And if they could  get out so slick, why couldn't somebody else--a murderous Red Bone, for 
