And with the emptying of their long guns the Americans drew their short  ones, and in a concerted ripping crash the forty-fives volleyed death  and dismay into the oncoming cannibals.    The rush was checked. For a few seconds the Red Bones wavered and milled  about. Into their mass poured a cloud of arrows and blowgun darts from  the silent but no less deadly weapons of the Mayorunas. As the whites  paused to reload, Pedro opened a new blast from Lourenço's rifle, which  his comrade had passed to him on the run. Lourenço was not shooting, but  working madly and alone to save the equipment. And, thanks to the  renewed deadly fire of the guns, he saved it.    Before the wicked belch of the three rifles and the two automatics the  Red Bones gave back more and more. Their arrows plunged all around the  fighting men, but they fell at random, for the gunmen and the canoes  were virtually invisible in the deep shadows. Downstream, Tucu's harsh  voice jarred in commands as he straightened out the line of boats.    At the next lull in the firing Lourenço panted: "In, comrades! We are  loaded. In!"    "Great guns! Are you still here?" snapped McKay. "I told you--"    "In! Talk later. Come!"    The three gun fighters swiftly obeyed. With a powerful heave Lourenço  sent the canoe after the others. Americans, Brazilians, and the Raposa  hunched up among the packs, all went sliding down a jungle Styx.    A moment later the Red Bone warriors, taking heart from the cessation of  firing, poured an avalanche of arrows into the spot where they had been.  And as the canoe, last in the escaping line, was swallowed up in the  impenetrable blackness of the forest a hair-raising screech of  diabolical fury blended with a swift succession of splashes back where  the cannibals were plunging headlong into the stream to reach the dead  or wounded men whom they vainly hoped to find on the farther shore.    "I told you to take this man and go!" McKay fumed. "By disobeying orders  you risked losing him."    "Oh, pipe down, Rod!" remonstrated Knowlton. "If they had, where'd we be 
