   At length the chief turned his eyes to Lourenço. The veteran bushman  promptly stepped forward and said his say. At the end he turned, took  from McKay the knife, unrolled the belt, and dangled the weapon before  the eyes of the rulers. They stared at it in obvious ignorance of its  character. Not until the Brazilian drew the blade from its sheath and  the glint of steel struck their vision did they show recognition. Then  Chief Suba grunted, his little eyes lit up, and he reached for it.    For a few minutes he sat gloating over the gift, admiring the bone  handle, hefting the weight of the long blade, while the subchiefs gazed  in envy. When he looked up his face was beaming. But then the sour-faced  subchief at his left hand muttered something, and Suba's visage  darkened. His eyes rested again on McKay, went to the bandaged arm of  Yuara, dropped to his knife--the first steel knife ever owned by him or  any man of the Suba tribe--and rose again to the black-bearded captain.  Abruptly then he spoke out.    Lourenço stared in blank astonishment. After a puzzled moment he shook  his head as if unable to believe he had heard aright. Suba, scowling,  repeated what he had said. Lourenço shook his head again, this time in  vehement denial, and began to talk. But Suba, rising with surprising  agility for a man of his weight, stopped him imperiously and spoke with  finality. Slowly the Brazilian nodded and turned to his captain.    "I do not understand this, Capitao. But these are the words of the  chief:    "'The white man with the black beard tries a trick, but it does not  deceive the free men of the forest. The thing which he thinks to be  hidden in his own heart is known to Suba and his chiefs. It is known  also to the chief Monitaya, and to his chiefs, and to his men also. The  white man is bold. And now his own boldness shall be his death.    "'Since the white man has said he goes to visit the chief Monitaya, and  since by some demon's power the white man has saved the life of Yuara, 
