 of his own, as I was saying, there is no doubt that _el Aleman_ now is  with the devil. So, since we can do nothing for him, let us look after  the two North American señores."    Pedro, with a grim smile, turned with him toward the tribal houses.  There was nothing else for them to do, for the Mayorunas now were  dispatching the last survivors of the attacking force. Before the pair  entered the low doorway a long, triumphant yell burst from the hoarse  throats of the men of Monitaya. Of all the Red Bones who had swept in  such ghoulish glee into that clearing not one now remained alive.    At that shout of victory and the entrance of the men to whose  precautions and prowess they owed so much, the women flocked again into  the center of the _maloca_ and the children dived out through the  tunnels to behold the battlefield. Though bullets and arrows had come  through the doorway, those inside had escaped all injury by hugging the  protective earth embankment or taking refuge in the vacant shafts under  the walls. Now the older women, experienced in treatment of wounds,  busied themselves with the white warriors, while the younger ones  fetched water and pieces of isca--a natural styptic made by ants--or  made up pads of poultices of healing herbs.    Tim, who had expected to play surgeon with his crude knowledge of first  aid, found himself not only relieved of his job, but being bathed and  plastered with the others. He, José, Pedro, Lourenço, and even Rand were  gashed by thrusts from broken spear hafts, bleeding from open bites,  ripped by glancing sweeps of tooth-set clubs, bruised by fierce  blows--minor injuries all, but such as might easily have resulted in  blood poisoning unless given prompt attention. Later on they were to be  thankful for those ministrations, but now they tolerated them only  because they could do nothing for the captain and the lieutenant.    McKay and Knowlton were under the direct and capable treatment of the  wives of the great chief. Of the two McKay looked by far the worse, but  actually was in much better condition. From the waist up he was clawed, 
