 Then we all laughed and took it for a good omen. Umbopa was a cheerful  savage, in a dignified sort of way, when he was not suffering from one  of his fits of brooding, and he had a wonderful knack of keeping up our  spirits. We all grew very fond of him.    And now for the one adventure to which I am going to treat myself, for  I do dearly love a hunting yarn.    About a fortnight's march from Inyati we came across a peculiarly  beautiful bit of well-watered woodland country. The kloofs in the hills  were covered with dense bush, "idoro" bush as the natives call it, and  in some places, with the "wacht-een-beche," or "wait-a-little thorn,"  and there were great quantities of the lovely "machabell" tree, laden  with refreshing yellow fruit having enormous stones. This tree is the  elephant's favourite food, and there were not wanting signs that the  great brutes had been about, for not only was their spoor frequent, but  in many places the trees were broken down and even uprooted. The  elephant is a destructive feeder.    One evening, after a long day's march, we came to a spot of great  loveliness. At the foot of a bush-clad hill lay a dry river-bed, in  which, however, were to be found pools of crystal water all trodden  round with the hoof-prints of game. Facing this hill was a park-like  plain, where grew clumps of flat-topped mimosa, varied with occasional  glossy-leaved machabells, and all round stretched the sea of pathless,  silent bush.    As we emerged into this river-bed path suddenly we started a troop of  tall giraffes, who galloped, or rather sailed off, in their strange  gait, their tails screwed up over their backs, and their hoofs rattling  like castanets. They were about three hundred yards from us, and  therefore practically out of shot, but Good, who was walking ahead, and  who had an express loaded with solid ball in his hand, could not resist  temptation. Lifting his gun, he let drive at the last, a young cow. By  some extraordinary chance the ball struck it full on the back of the  neck, shattering the spinal column, and that giraffe went rolling head 
