   Meanwhile Ventvögel was lifting his snub nose, and sniffing the hot air  for all the world like an old Impala ram who scents danger. Presently  he spoke again.    "I _smell_ water," he said.    Then we felt quite jubilant, for we knew what a wonderful instinct  these wild-bred men possess.    Just at that moment the sun came up gloriously, and revealed so grand a  sight to our astonished eyes that for a moment or two we even forgot  our thirst.    There, not more than forty or fifty miles from us, glittering like  silver in the early rays of the morning sun, soared Sheba's Breasts;  and stretching away for hundreds of miles on either side of them ran  the great Suliman Berg. Now that, sitting here, I attempt to describe  the extraordinary grandeur and beauty of that sight, language seems to  fail me. I am impotent even before its memory. Straight before us, rose  two enormous mountains, the like of which are not, I believe, to be  seen in Africa, if indeed there are any other such in the world,  measuring each of them at least fifteen thousand feet in height,  standing not more than a dozen miles apart, linked together by a  precipitous cliff of rock, and towering in awful white solemnity  straight into the sky. These mountains placed thus, like the pillars of  a gigantic gateway, are shaped after the fashion of a woman's breasts,  and at times the mists and shadows beneath them take the form of a  recumbent woman, veiled mysteriously in sleep. Their bases swell gently  from the plain, looking at that distance perfectly round and smooth;  and upon the top of each is a vast hillock covered with snow, exactly  corresponding to the nipple on the female breast. The stretch of cliff  that connects them appears to be some thousands of feet in height, and  perfectly precipitous, and on each flank of them, so far as the eye can  reach, extent similar lines of cliff, broken only here and there by  flat table-topped mountains, something like the world-famed one at Cape  Town; a formation, by the way, that is very common in Africa.  
