predicted would be the case, had fixed their attention on the bloody  struggle which was raging round the remnant of the Greys and that of  the Buffaloes, who were now carrying on a battle of their own at a  little distance, which two regiments had formed the chest of our army.  It was not until our horns were about to close upon them that they had  dreamed of their approach, for they believed these forces to be hidden  in reserve upon the crest of the moon-shaped hill. And now, before they  could even assume a proper formation for defence, the outflanking  _Impis_ had leapt, like greyhounds, on their flanks.    In five minutes the fate of the battle was decided. Taken on both  flanks, and dismayed at the awful slaughter inflicted upon them by the  Greys and Buffaloes, Twala's regiments broke into flight, and soon the  whole plain between us and Loo was scattered with groups of running  soldiers making good their retreat. As for the hosts that had so  recently surrounded us and the Buffaloes, they melted away as though by  magic, and presently we were left standing there like a rock from which  the sea has retreated. But what a sight it was! Around us the dead and  dying lay in heaped-up masses, and of the gallant Greys there remained  but ninety-five men upon their feet. More than three thousand four  hundred had fallen in this one regiment, most of them never to rise  again.    "Men," said Infadoos calmly, as between the intervals of binding a  wound on his arm he surveyed what remained to him of his corps, "ye  have kept up the reputation of your regiment, and this day's fighting  will be well spoken of by your children's children." Then he turned  round and shook Sir Henry Curtis by the hand. "Thou art a great  captain, Incubu," he said simply; "I have lived a long life among  warriors, and have known many a brave one, yet have I never seen a man  like unto thee."    At this moment the Buffaloes began to march past our position on the  road to Loo, and as they went a message was brought to us from Ignosi 
