Infadoos and the chiefs calculated, had at least thirty to thirty-five  thousand on whom he could rely at present assembled in Loo, and they  thought that by midday on the morrow he would be able to gather another  five thousand or more to his aid. It was, of course, possible that some  of his troops would desert and come over to us, but it was not a  contingency which could be reckoned on. Meanwhile, it was clear that  active preparations were being made by Twala to subdue us. Already  strong bodies of armed men were patrolling round and round the foot of  the hill, and there were other signs also of coming assault.    Infadoos and the chiefs, however, were of opinion that no attack would  take place that day, which would be devoted to preparation and to the  removal of every available means of the moral effect produced upon the  minds of the soldiery by the supposed magical darkening of the moon.  The onslaught would be on the morrow, they said, and they proved to be  right.    Meanwhile, we set to work to strengthen the position in all ways  possible. Almost every man was turned out, and in the course of the  day, which seemed far too short, much was done. The paths up the  hill--that was rather a sanatorium than a fortress, being used  generally as the camping place of regiments suffering from recent  service in unhealthy portions of the country--were carefully blocked  with masses of stones, and every other approach was made as impregnable  as time would allow. Piles of boulders were collected at various spots  to be rolled down upon an advancing enemy, stations were appointed to  the different regiments, and all preparation was made which our joint  ingenuity could suggest.    Just before sundown, as we rested after our toil, we perceived a small  company of men advancing towards us from the direction of Loo, one of  whom bore a palm leaf in his hand for a sign that he came as a herald.    As he drew near, Ignosi, Infadoos, one or two chiefs and ourselves,  went down to the foot of the mountain to meet him. He was a 
