 mound; and now again I saw Twala's plumed and gory head roll past my  feet with gnashing teeth and glaring eye.    At last, somehow or other, the night passed away; but when dawn broke I  found that my companions had slept no better than myself. Good, indeed,  was in a high fever, and very soon afterwards began to grow  light-headed, and also, to my alarm, to spit blood, the result, no  doubt, of some internal injury, inflicted during the desperate efforts  made by the Kukuana warrior on the previous day to force his big spear  through the chain armour. Sir Henry, however, seemed pretty fresh,  notwithstanding his wound on the face, which made eating difficult and  laughter an impossibility, though he was so sore and stiff that he  could scarcely stir.    About eight o'clock we had a visit from Infadoos, who appeared but  little the worse--tough old warrior that he was--for his exertions in  the battle, although he informed us that he had been up all night. He  was delighted to see us, but much grieved at Good's condition, and  shook our hands cordially. I noticed, however, that he addressed Sir  Henry with a kind of reverence, as though he were something more than  man; and, indeed, as we afterwards found out, the great Englishman was  looked on throughout Kukuanaland as a supernatural being. No man, the  soldiers said, could have fought as he fought or, at the end of a day  of such toil and bloodshed, could have slain Twala, who, in addition to  being the king, was supposed to be the strongest warrior in the  country, in single combat, shearing through his bull-neck at a stroke.  Indeed, that stroke became proverbial in Kukuanaland, and any  extraordinary blow or feat of strength was henceforth known as  "Incubu's blow."    Infadoos told us also that all Twala's regiments had submitted to  Ignosi, and that like submissions were beginning to arrive from chiefs  in the outlying country. Twala's death at the hands of Sir Henry had  put an end to all further chance of disturbance; for Scragga had been  his only legitimate son, so there was no rival claimant to the throne  left alive. 
