began to creep stealthily towards the soldiers before her. It seemed to  us that as she came their stoicism gave way, and that they shrank from  her. As for ourselves, we followed her movements with a horrible  fascination. Presently, still creeping and crouching like a dog, the  _Isanusi_ was before them. Then she halted and pointed, and again crept  on a pace or two.    Suddenly the end came. With a shriek she sprang in and touched a tall  warrior with her forked wand. Instantly two of his comrades, those  standing immediately next to him, seized the doomed man, each by one  arm, and advanced with him towards the king.    He did not resist, but we saw that he dragged his limbs as though they  were paralysed, and that his fingers, from which the spear had fallen,  were limp like those of a man newly dead.    As he came, two of the villainous executioners stepped forward to meet  him. Presently they met, and the executioners turned round, looking  towards the king as though for orders.    "_Kill!_" said the king.    "_Kill!_" squeaked Gagool.    "_Kill!_" re-echoed Scragga, with a hollow chuckle.    Almost before the words were uttered the horrible dead was done. One  man had driven his spear into the victim's heart, and to make assurance  double sure, the other had dashed out his brains with a great club.    "_One_," counted Twala the king, just like a black Madame Defarge, as  Good said, and the body was dragged a few paces away and stretched out.    Hardly was the thing done before another poor wretch was brought up,  like an ox to the slaughter. This time we could see, from the  leopard-skin cloak which he wore, that the man was a person of rank.  Again the awful syllables were spoken, and the victim fell dead.    "_Two_," counted the king.    And so the deadly game went on, till about a hundred bodies were  stretched in rows behind us. I have heard of the gladiatorial shows of  the Cæsars, and of the Spanish bull-fights, but I take the liberty of  doubting if either of them could be half so horrible as this Kukuana 
