figures before us might represent these false and exploded divinities.    "Hum," said Sir Henry, who is a scholar, having taken a high degree in  classics at college, "there may be something in that; Ashtoreth of the  Hebrews was the Astarte of the Phoenicians, who were the great traders  of Solomon's time. Astarte, who afterwards became the Aphrodite of the  Greeks, was represented with horns like the half-moon, and there on the  brow of the female figure are distinct horns. Perhaps these Colossi  were designed by some Phoenician official who managed the mines. Who  can say?"[1]    Before we had finished examining these extraordinary relics of remote  antiquity, Infadoos came up, and having saluted the "Silent Ones" by  lifting his spear, asked us if we intended entering the "Place of  Death" at once, or if we would wait till after we had taken food at  mid-day. If we were ready to go at once, Gagool had announced her  willingness to guide us. As it was not later than eleven  o'clock--driven to it by a burning curiosity--we announced our  intention of proceeding instantly, and I suggested that, in case we  should be detained in the cave, we should take some food with us.  Accordingly Gagool's litter was brought up, and that lady herself  assisted out of it. Meanwhile Foulata, at my request, stored some  "biltong," or dried game-flesh, together with a couple of gourds of  water, in a reed basket with a hinged cover. Straight in front of us,  at a distance of some fifty paces from the backs of the Colossi, rose a  sheer wall of rock, eighty feet or more in height, that gradually  sloped upwards till it formed the base of the lofty snow-wreathed peak,  which soared into the air three thousand feet above us. As soon as she  was clear of her hammock, Gagool cast one evil grin upon us, and then,  leaning on a stick, hobbled off towards the face of this wall. We  followed her till we came to a narrow portal solidly arched that looked  like the opening of a gallery of a mine.    Here Gagool was waiting for us, still with that evil grin upon her  horrid face. 
