increasing by leaps and bounds, and whose stench was overpowering.  So fast as we cracked their armour others seized the injured ones and  devoured them, foaming at the mouth, and screaming as they did so. Nor  did the brutes stop at that. When they could they nipped hold of us--and  awful nips they were--or tried to steal the meat. One enormous fellow  got hold of the swan we had skinned and began to drag it off. Instantly  a score of others flung themselves upon the prey, and then began a  ghastly and disgusting scene. How the monsters foamed and screamed, and  rent the flesh, and each other! It was a sickening and unnatural sight,  and one that will haunt all who saw it till their dying day--enacted as  it was in the deep, oppressive gloom, and set to the unceasing music of  the many-toned nerve-shaking echoes. Strange as it may seem to say  so, there was something so shockingly human about these fiendish  creatures--it was as though all the most evil passions and desires of  man had got into the shell of a magnified crab and gone mad. They were  so dreadfully courageous and intelligent, and they looked as if they  _understood_. The whole scene might have furnished material for another  canto of Dante’s ‘Inferno’, as Curtis said.      ‘I say, you fellows, let’s get out of this or we shall all go off our  heads,’ sung out Good; and we were not slow to take the hint. Pushing  the canoe, around which the animals were now crawling by hundreds and  making vain attempts to climb, off the rocks, we bundled into it and got  out into mid-stream, leaving behind us the fragments of our meal and the  screaming, foaming, stinking mass of monsters in full possession of the  ground.    ‘Those are the devils of the place,’ said Umslopogaas with the air of  one who has solved a problem, and upon my word I felt almost inclined to  agree with him.    Umslopogaas’ remarks were like his axe--very much to the point.    ‘What’s to be done next?’ said Sir Henry blankly.    ‘Drift, I suppose,’ I answered, and we drifted accordingly. All the 
