and hire these men, and accordingly on the following morning we started  to interview the party, accompanied by an interpreter.    In due course we found them in a mud hut on the outskirts of the town.  Three of the men were sitting outside the hut, and fine frank-looking  fellows they were, having a more or less civilized appearance. To them  we cautiously opened the object of our visit, at first with very scant  success. They declared that they could not entertain any such idea, that  they were worn and weary with long travelling, and that their hearts  were sore at the loss of their master. They meant to go back to their  homes and rest awhile. This did not sound very promising, so by way of  effecting a diversion I asked where the remainder of them were. I was  told there were six, and I saw but three. One of the men said they slept  in the hut, and were yet resting after their labours--‘sleep weighed  down their eyelids, and sorrow made their hearts as lead: it was best  to sleep, for with sleep came forgetfulness. But the men should be  awakened.’    Presently they came out of the hut, yawning--the first two men being  evidently of the same race and style as those already before us; but the  appearance of the third and last nearly made me jump out of my skin.  He was a very tall, broad man, quite six foot three, I should say, but  gaunt, with lean, wiry-looking limbs. My first glance at him told me  that he was no Wakwafi: he was a pure bred Zulu. He came out with his  thin aristocratic-looking hand placed before his face to hide a yawn, so  I could only see that he was a ‘Keshla’ or ringed man {Endnote 1}, and  that he had a great three-cornered hole in his forehead. In another  second he removed his hand, revealing a powerful-looking Zulu face, with  a humorous mouth, a short woolly beard, tinged with grey, and a pair of  brown eyes keen as a hawk’s. I knew my man at once, although I had not  seen him for twelve years. ‘How do you do, Umslopogaas?’ I said quietly 
