the people on the grass in one of the London parks on a particularly hot  Sunday in August. In front of this entrance, on a space which had been  cleared of dead and of the shields and spears which were scattered in  all directions as they had fallen or been thrown from the hands of their  owners, stood and lay the survivors of the awful struggle, and at their  feet were four wounded men. We had gone into the fight thirty strong,  and of the thirty but fifteen remained alive, and five of them  (including Mr Mackenzie) were wounded, two mortally. Of those who held  the entrance, Curtis and the Zulu alone remained. Good had lost five men  killed, I had lost two killed, and Mackenzie no less than five out of  the six with him. As for the survivors they were, with the exception of  myself who had never come to close quarters, red from head to foot--Sir  Henry’s armour might have been painted that colour--and utterly  exhausted, except Umslopogaas, who, as he grimly stood on a little  mound above a heap of dead, leaning as usual upon his axe, did not seem  particularly distressed, although the skin over the hole in his head  palpitated violently.    ‘Ah, Macumazahn!’ he said to me as I limped up, feeling very sick, ‘I  told thee that it would be a good fight, and it has. Never have I seen a  better, or one more bravely fought. As for this iron shirt, surely it is  “tagati” [bewitched]; nothing could pierce it. Had it not been for the  garment I should have been _there_,’ and he nodded towards the great  pile of dead men beneath him.    ‘I give it thee; thou art a brave man,’ said Sir Henry, briefly.    ‘Koos!’ answered the Zulu, deeply pleased both at the gift and the  compliment. ‘Thou, too, Incubu, didst bear thyself as a man, but I must  give thee some lessons with the axe; thou dost waste thy strength.’    Just then Mackenzie asked about Flossie, and we were all greatly  relieved when one of the men said he had seen her flying towards the  house with the nurse. Then bearing such of the wounded as could be moved 
