and departed. Then Nyleptha sent a messenger to Sir Henry, and presently  he arrived looking uncommonly uncomfortable. I thought that another  outburst was about to follow, but wonderful are the ways of woman; she  said not a word about Sorais and his supposed inconstancy, greeting him  with a friendly nod, and stating simply that she required his advice  upon high matters. All the same there was a look in her eye, and a sort  of suppressed energy in her manner towards him, that makes me think  that she had not forgotten the affair, but was keeping it for a private  occasion.    Just after Curtis arrived the officer returned, and reported that Sorais  was _gone_. The bird had flown to the Temple, stating that she was  going, as was sometimes the custom among Zu-Vendi ladies of rank, to  spend the night in meditation before the altar. We looked at each other  significantly. The blow had fallen very soon.    Then we set to work.    Generals who could be trusted were summoned from their quarters, and  as much of the State affairs as was thought desirable was told to each,  strict injunctions being given to them to get all their available force  together. The same was done with such of the more powerful lords as  Nyleptha knew she could rely on, several of whom left that very day for  distant parts of the country to gather up their tribesmen and retainers.  Sealed orders were dispatched to the rulers of far-off cities, and some  twenty messengers were sent off before nightfall with instructions to  ride early and late till they reached the distant chiefs to whom their  letters were addressed: also many spies were set to work. All the  afternoon and evening we laboured, assisted by some confidential  scribes, Nyleptha showing an energy and resource of mind that astonished  me, and it was eight o’clock before we got back to our quarters. Here we  heard from Alphonse, who was deeply aggrieved because our non-return had  spoilt his dinner (for he had turned cook again now), that Good had come  back from his hawking and gone on duty. As instructions had already been  given to the officer of the outer guard to double the sentries at the 
