And now, my lords, once more, farewell!’    Then we rode on, but when we had gone a hundred and fifty yards or so,  we turned and perceived her still sitting on her horse at the same spot,  and looking out after us beneath her hand, and that was the last we saw  of her. About a mile farther on, however, we heard galloping behind  us, and looking round, saw a mounted soldier coming towards us, leading  Nyleptha’s matchless steed--Daylight.    ‘The Queen sends the white stallion as a farewell gift to her Lord  Incubu, and bids me tell my lord that he is the fleetest and most  enduring horse in all the land,’ said the soldier, bending to his  saddle-bow before us.    At first Sir Henry did not want to take the horse, saying that he was  too good for such rough work, but I persuaded him to do so, thinking  that Nyleptha would be hurt if he did not. Little did I guess at the  time what service that noble horse would render in our sorest need. It  is curious to look back and realize upon what trivial and apparently  coincidental circumstances great events frequently turn as easily and  naturally as a door on its hinges.    Well, we took the horse, and a beauty he was, it was a perfect pleasure  to see him move, and Curtis having sent back his greetings and thanks,  we proceeded on our journey.    By midday we overtook the rear-guard of the great army of which  Sir Henry then formally took over the command. It was a heavy  responsibility, and it oppressed him very much, but the Queen’s  injunctions on the point were such as did not admit of being  trifled with. He was beginning to find out that greatness has its  responsibilities as well as its glories.    Then we marched on without meeting with any opposition, almost indeed  without seeing anybody, for the populations of the towns and villages  along our route had for the most part fled, fearing lest they should  be caught between the two rival armies and ground to powder like grain  between the upper and the nether stones. 
