through the white patchy moonlight, that lay coldly upon the wide bosom  of the earth, as though there was no warmth in it; on, knee to knee, for  hour after hour!    We spake not, but bent us forward on the necks of those two glorious  horses, and listened to their deep, long-drawn breaths as they filled  their great lungs, and to the regular unfaltering ring of their round  hoofs. Grim and black indeed did old Umslopogaas look beside me, mounted  upon the great white horse, like Death in the Revelation of St John, as  now and again lifting his fierce set face he gazed out along the road,  and pointed with his axe towards some distant rise or house.    And so on, still on, without break or pause for hour after hour.    At last I felt that even the splendid animal that I rode was beginning  to give out. I looked at my watch; it was nearly midnight, and we were  considerably more than half way. On the top of a rise was a little  spring, which I remembered because I had slept by it a few nights  before, and here I motioned to Umslopogaas to pull up, having determined  to give the horses and ourselves ten minutes to breathe in. He did so,  and we dismounted--that is to say, Umslopogaas did, and then helped me  off, for what with fatigue, stiffness, and the pain of my wound, I could  not do so for myself; and then the gallant horses stood panting there,  resting first one leg and then another, while the sweat fell drip, drip,  from them, and the steam rose and hung in pale clouds in the still night  air.    Leaving Umslopogaas to hold the horses, I hobbled to the spring and  drank deep of its sweet waters. I had had nothing but a single mouthful  of wine since midday, when the battle began, and I was parched up,  though my fatigue was too great to allow me to feel hungry. Then, having  laved my fevered head and hands, I returned, and the Zulu went and  drank. Next we allowed the horses to take a couple of mouthfuls each--no  more; and oh, what a struggle we had to get the poor beasts away from 
