cheered him, as well they might, but he never stayed or heeded. With  outstretched arms and tottering gait he pursued his way, followed by us  all along the broad shell-strewn walk that ran through the courtyard,  past the spot where the blocks of marble lay, through the round arched  doorway and the thick curtains that hung within it, down the  short passage and into the great hall, which was now filling with  hastily-armed men, who poured through the side entrance. Straight up  the hall he went, leaving behind him a track of blood on the marble  pavement, till at last he reached the sacred stone, which stood in the  centre of it, and here his strength seemed to fail him, for he stopped  and leaned upon his axe. Then suddenly he lifted up his voice and cried  aloud--    ‘I die, I die--but it was a kingly fray. Where are they who came up the  great stair? I see them not. Art thou there, Macumazahn, or art thou  gone before to wait for me in the dark whither I go? The blood blinds  me--the place turns round--I hear the voice of waters.’    Next, as though a new thought had struck him, he lifted the red axe and  kissed the blade.    ‘Farewell, Inkosi-kaas,’ he cried. ‘Nay, nay, we will go together; we  cannot part, thou and I. We have lived too long one with another, thou  and I.    ‘One more stroke, only one! A good stroke! a straight stroke! a  strong stroke!’ and, drawing himself to his full height, with a wild  heart-shaking shout, he with both hands began to whirl the axe round his  head till it looked like a circle of flaming steel. Then, suddenly, with  awful force he brought it down straight on to the crown of the mass  of sacred stone. A shower of sparks flew up, and such was the almost  superhuman strength of the blow, that the massive marble split with  a rending sound into a score of pieces, whilst of Inkosi-kaas there  remained but some fragments of steel and a fibrous rope of shattered  horn that had been the handle. Down with a crash on to the pavement fell 
