man might have been proud, both on account of its magnitude and its  surpassing beauty. Four times, as we afterwards learnt, did the work,  which was commenced in remote antiquity, fail, and was then abandoned  for three centuries when half-finished, till at last there rose a  youthful engineer named Rademas, who said that he would complete it  successfully, and staked his life upon it. If he failed he was to be  hurled from the precipice he had undertaken to scale; if he succeeded,  he was to be rewarded by the hand of the king’s daughter. Five years was  given to him to complete the work, and an unlimited supply of labour and  material. Three times did his arch fall, till at last, seeing failure  to be inevitable, he determined to commit suicide on the morrow of the  third collapse. That night, however, a beautiful woman came to him in a  dream and touched his forehead, and of a sudden he saw a vision of the  completed work, and saw too through the masonry and how the difficulties  connected with the flying arch that had hitherto baffled his genius were  to be overcome. Then he awoke and once more commenced the work, but on  a different plan, and behold! he achieved it, and on the last day of  the five years he led the princess his bride up the stair and into  the palace. And in due course he became king by right of his wife, and  founded the present Zu-Vendi dynasty, which is to this day called the  ‘House of the Stairway’, thus proving once more how energy and talent  are the natural stepping-stones to grandeur. And to commemorate his  triumph he fashioned a statue of himself dreaming, and of the fair woman  who touched him on the forehead, and placed it in the great hall of the  palace, and there it stands to this day.    Such was the great stair of Milosis, and such the city beyond. No wonder  they named it the ‘Frowning City’, for certainly those mighty works in  solid granite did seem to frown down upon our littleness in their sombre  splendour. This was so even in the sunshine, but when the storm-clouds  gathered on her imperial brow Milosis looked more like a supernatural 
