the affairs of state would allow of it. And I am bound to say that those  little suppers were quite the most charming things of their sort that  I ever had to do with. How true is the saying that the very highest  in rank are always the most simple and kindly. It is from your  half-and-half sort of people that you get pomposity and vulgarity, the  difference between the two being very much what one sees every day in  England between the old, out-at-elbows, broken-down county family, and  the overbearing, purse-proud people who come and ‘take the place’. I  really think that Nyleptha’s greatest charm is her sweet simplicity, and  her kindly genuine interest even in little things. She is the simplest  woman I ever knew, and where her passions are not involved, one of the  sweetest; but she can look queenly enough when she likes, and be as  fierce as any savage too.    For instance, never shall I forget that scene when I for the first time  was sure that she was really in love with Curtis. It came about in this  way--all through Good’s weakness for ladies’ society. When we had been  employed for some three months in learning Zu-Vendi, it struck Master  Good that he was getting rather tired of the old gentlemen who did us  the honour to lead us in the way that we should go, so he proceeded,  without saying a word to anybody else, to inform them that it was a  peculiar fact, but that we could not make any real progress in the  deeper intricacies of a foreign language unless we were taught by  ladies--young ladies, he was careful to explain. In his own country, he  pointed out, it was habitual to choose the very best-looking and most  charming girls who could be found to instruct any strangers who happened  to come that way, etc.    All of this the old gentlemen swallowed open-mouthed. There was,  they admitted, reason in what he said, since the contemplation of the  beautiful, as their philosophy taught, induced a certain porosity of  mind similar to that produced upon the physical body by the healthful  influences of sun and air. Consequently it was probable that we might 
