Quatermain announced, whereupon Good put the diamond into his pocket,  and sprang at a little man who limped shyly into the room, convoyed by  Sir Henry Curtis himself.    “Here he is, Good, safe and sound,” said Sir Henry, gleefully. “Ladies  and gentlemen, let me introduce you to one of the oldest hunters and the  very best shot in Africa, who has killed more elephants and lions than  any other man alive.”    Everybody turned and stared politely at the curious-looking little lame  man, and though his size was insignificant, he was quite worth staring  at. He had short grizzled hair, which stood about an inch above his head  like the bristles of a brush, gentle brown eyes, that seemed to notice  everything, and a withered face, tanned to the colour of mahogany  from exposure to the weather. He spoke, too, when he returned Good’s  enthusiastic greeting, with a curious little accent, which made his  speech noticeable.    It so happened that I sat next to Mr. Allan Quatermain at dinner, and,  of course, did my best to draw him; but he was not to be drawn. He  admitted that he had recently been a long journey into the interior of  Africa with Sir Henry Curtis and Captain Good, and that they had found  treasure, and then politely turned the subject and began to ask me  questions about England, where he had never been before--that is, since  he came to years of discretion. Of course, I did not find this very  interesting, and so cast about for some means to bring the conversation  round again.    Now, we were dining in an oak-panelled vestibule, and on the wall  opposite to me were fixed two gigantic elephant tusks, and under them  a pair of buffalo horns, very rough and knotted, showing that they came  off an old bull, and having the tip of one horn split and chipped. I  noticed that Hunter Quatermain’s eyes kept glancing at these trophies,  and took an occasion to ask him if he knew anything about them.    “I ought to,” he answered, with a little laugh; “the elephant to which  those tusks belonged tore one of our party right in two about eighteen 
