to the spring of water, where my camp had been. I was soon there, only  to find that my worst suspicions were confirmed.    “The waggon and all its contents, including my spare guns and  ammunition, had been destroyed by a grass fire.    “Now before I started, I had left orders with the driver to burn off  the grass round the camp, in order to guard against accidents of this  nature, and here was the reward of my folly: a very proper illustration  of the necessity, especially where natives are concerned, of doing a  thing one’s self if one wants it done at all. Evidently the lazy  rascals had not burnt round the waggon; most probably, indeed, they had  themselves carelessly fired the tall and resinous tambouki grass near  by; the wind had driven the flames on to the waggon tent, and there was  quickly an end of the matter. As for the driver and leader, I know not  what became of them: probably fearing my anger, they bolted, taking the  oxen with them. I have never seen them from that hour to this.    “I sat down on the black veldt by the spring, and gazed at the charred  axles and disselboom of my waggon, and I can assure you, ladies and  gentlemen, I felt inclined to weep. As for Mashune and Hans they cursed  away vigorously, one in Zulu and the other in Dutch. Ours was a pretty  position. We were nearly 300 miles away from Bamangwato, the capital of  Khama’s country, which was the nearest spot where we could get any help,  and our ammunition, spare guns, clothing, food, and everything else,  were all totally destroyed. I had just what I stood in, which was a  flannel shirt, a pair of ‘veldt-schoons,’ or shoes of raw hide, my  eight-bore rifle, and a few cartridges. Hans and Mashune had also each  a Martini rifle and some cartridges, not many. And it was with this  equipment that we had to undertake a journey of 300 miles through a  desolate and almost uninhabited region. I can assure you that I have  rarely been in a worse position, and I have been in some queer ones.  However, these things are the natural incidents of a hunter’s life, and 
