off an old bull, and having the tip of one horn split and chipped. I  noticed that Hunter Quatermain’s eyes kept glancing at these trophies,  and took an occasion to ask him if he knew anything about them.    “I ought to,” he answered, with a little laugh; “the elephant to which  those tusks belonged tore one of our party right in two about eighteen  months ago, and as for the buffalo horns, they were nearly my death, and  were the end of a servant of mine to whom I was much attached. I  gave them to Sir Henry when he left Natal some months ago;” and Mr.  Quatermain sighed and turned to answer a question from the lady whom he  had taken down to dinner, and who, needless to say, was also employed in  trying to pump him about the diamonds.    Indeed, all round the table there was a simmer of scarcely suppressed  excitement, which, when the servants had left the room, could no longer  be restrained.    “Now, Mr. Quatermain,” said the lady next him, “we have been kept in an  agony of suspense by Sir Henry and Captain Good, who have persistently  refused to tell us a word of this story about the hidden treasure till  you came, and we simply can bear it no longer; so, please, begin at  once.”    “Yes,” said everybody, “go on, please.”    Hunter Quatermain glanced round the table apprehensively; he did not  seem to appreciate finding himself the object of so much curiosity.    “Ladies and gentlemen,” he said at last, with a shake of his grizzled  head, “I am very sorry to disappoint you, but I cannot do it. It is this  way. At the request of Sir Henry and Captain Good I have written down a  true and plain account of King Solomon’s Mines and how we found them,  so you will soon be able to learn all about that wonderful adventure  for yourselves; but until then I will say nothing about it, not from  any wish to disappoint your curiosity, or to make myself important, but  simply because the whole story partakes so much of the marvellous, that  I am afraid to tell it in a piecemeal, hasty fashion, for fear I should 
