true and plain account of King Solomon’s Mines and how we found them,  so you will soon be able to learn all about that wonderful adventure  for yourselves; but until then I will say nothing about it, not from  any wish to disappoint your curiosity, or to make myself important, but  simply because the whole story partakes so much of the marvellous, that  I am afraid to tell it in a piecemeal, hasty fashion, for fear I should  be set down as one of those common fellows of whom there are so many in  my profession, who are not ashamed to narrate things they have not seen,  and even to tell wonderful stories about wild animals they have never  killed. And I think that my companions in adventure, Sir Henry Curtis  and Captain Good, will bear me out in what I say.”    “Yes, Quatermain, I think you are quite right,” said Sir Henry.  “Precisely the same considerations have forced Good and myself to hold  our tongues. We did not wish to be bracketed with--well, with other  famous travellers.”    There was a murmur of disappointment at these announcements.    “I believe you are all hoaxing us,” said the young lady next Mr.  Quatermain, rather sharply.    “Believe me,” answered the old hunter, with a quaint courtesy and a  little bow of his grizzled head; “though I have lived all my life in the  wilderness, and amongst savages, I have neither the heart, nor the want  of manners, to wish to deceive one so lovely.”    Whereat the young lady, who was pretty, looked appeased.    “This is very dreadful,” I broke in. “We ask for bread and you give us a  stone, Mr. Quatermain. The least that you can do is to tell us the story  of the tusks opposite and the buffalo horns underneath. We won’t let you  off with less.”    “I am but a poor story-teller,” put in the old hunter, “but if you will  forgive my want of skill, I shall be happy to tell you, not the story  of the tusks, for that is part of the history of our journey to King  Solomon’s Mines, but that of the buffalo horns beneath them, which is 
