of the tusks opposite and the buffalo horns underneath. We won’t let you  off with less.”    “I am but a poor story-teller,” put in the old hunter, “but if you will  forgive my want of skill, I shall be happy to tell you, not the story  of the tusks, for that is part of the history of our journey to King  Solomon’s Mines, but that of the buffalo horns beneath them, which is  now ten years old.”    “Bravo, Quatermain!” said Sir Henry. “We shall all be delighted. Fire  away! Fill up your glass first.”    The little man did as he was bid, took a sip of claret, and  began:--“About ten years ago I was hunting up in the far interior of  Africa, at a place called Gatgarra, not a great way from the Chobe  River. I had with me four native servants, namely, a driver and  voorlooper, or leader, who were natives of Matabeleland, a Hottentot  named Hans, who had once been the slave of a Transvaal Boer, and a Zulu  hunter, who for five years had accompanied me upon my trips, and whose  name was Mashune. Now near Gatgarra I found a fine piece of healthy,  park-like country, where the grass was very good, considering the time  of year; and here I made a little camp or head-quarter settlement, from  whence I went expeditions on all sides in search of game, especially  elephant. My luck, however, was bad; I got but little ivory. I was  therefore very glad when some natives brought me news that a large herd  of elephants were feeding in a valley about thirty miles away. At first  I thought of trekking down to the valley, waggon and all, but gave up  the idea on hearing that it was infested with the deadly ‘tsetse’ fly,  which is certain death to all animals, except men, donkeys, and wild  game. So I reluctantly determined to leave the waggon in the charge of  the Matabele leader and driver, and to start on a trip into the thorn  country, accompanied only by the Hottentot Hans, and Mashune.    “Accordingly on the following morning we started, and on the evening of  the next day reached the spot where the elephants were reported to be. 
