rarely been in a worse position, and I have been in some queer ones.  However, these things are the natural incidents of a hunter’s life, and  the only thing to do was to make the best of them.    “Accordingly, after passing a comfortless night by the remains of  my waggon, we started next morning on our long journey towards  civilization. Now if I were to set to work to tell you all the troubles  and incidents of that dreadful journey I should keep you listening  here till midnight; so I will, with your permission, pass on to the  particular adventure of which the pair of buffalo horns opposite are the  melancholy memento.    “We had been travelling for about a month, living and getting along  as best we could, when one evening we camped some forty miles from  Bamangwato. By this time we were indeed in a melancholy plight,  footsore, half starved, and utterly worn out; and, in addition, I was  suffering from a sharp attack of fever, which half blinded me and made  me weak as a babe. Our ammunition, too, was exhausted; I had only one  cartridge left for my eight-bore rifle, and Hans and Mashune, who were  armed with Martini Henrys, had three between them. It was about an hour  from sundown when we halted and lit a fire--for luckily we had still a  few matches. It was a charming spot to camp, I remember. Just off the  game track we were following was a little hollow, fringed about with  flat-crowned mimosa trees, and at the bottom of the hollow, a spring  of clear water welled up out of the earth, and formed a pool, round the  edges of which grew an abundance of watercresses of an exactly similar  kind to those which were handed round the table just now. Now we had no  food of any kind left, having that morning devoured the last remains  of a little oribé antelope, which I had shot two days previously.  Accordingly Hans, who was a better shot than Mashune, took two of the  three remaining Martini cartridges, and started out to see if he could  not kill a buck for supper. I was too weak to go myself. 
