a boulder down the hill, his hoofs turning up the earth like a hoe. Hans  had hit him: he bled as he came; there are the blood spots. It is all  written down there, my father--there upon the earth.’    “‘Yes,’ I said; ‘yes; but _where is Hans?_’    “Even as I said it Mashune clutched my arm, and pointed to the stunted  thorn just by us. Even now, gentlemen, it makes me feel sick when I  think of what I saw.    “For fixed in a stout fork of the tree some eight feet from the ground  was Hans himself, or rather his dead body, evidently tossed there by the  furious buffalo. One leg was twisted round the fork, probably in a dying  convulsion. In the side, just beneath the ribs, was a great hole, from  which the entrails protruded. But this was not all. The other leg hung  down to within five feet of the ground. The skin and most of the flesh  were gone from it. For a moment we stood aghast, and gazed at this  horrifying sight. Then I understood what had happened. The buffalo, with  that devilish cruelty which distinguishes the animal, had, after his  enemy was dead, stood underneath his body, and licked the flesh off  the pendant leg with his file-like tongue. I had heard of such a thing  before, but had always treated the stories as hunters’ yarns; but I had  no doubt about it now. Poor Hans’ skeleton foot and ankle were an ample  proof.    “We stood aghast under the tree, and stared and stared at this awful  sight, when suddenly our cogitations were interrupted in a painful  manner. The thick bush about fifteen paces off burst asunder with a  crashing sound, and uttering a series of ferocious pig-like grunts, the  bull buffalo himself came charging out straight at us. Even as he came  I saw the blood mark on his side where poor Hans’ bullet had struck him,  and also, as is often the case with particularly savage buffaloes, that  his flanks had recently been terribly torn in an encounter with a lion.    “On he came, his head well up (a buffalo does not generally lower his 
