and also, as is often the case with particularly savage buffaloes, that  his flanks had recently been terribly torn in an encounter with a lion.    “On he came, his head well up (a buffalo does not generally lower his  head till he does so to strike); those great black horns--as I look at  them before me, gentlemen, I seem to see them come charging at me as I  did ten years ago, silhouetted against the green bush behind;--on, on!”    “With a shout Mashune bolted off sideways towards the bush. I had  instinctively lifted my eight-bore, which I had in my hand. It would  have been useless to fire at the buffalo’s head, for the dense horns  must have turned the bullet; but as Mashune bolted, the bull slewed a  little, with the momentary idea of following him, and as this gave me  a ghost of a chance, I let drive my only cartridge at his shoulder. The  bullet struck the shoulder-blade and smashed it up, and then travelled  on under the skin into his flank; but it did not stop him, though for a  second he staggered.    “Throwing myself on to the ground with the energy of despair, I rolled  under the shelter of the projecting root of the thorn, crushing myself  as far into the mouth of the ant-bear hole as I could. In a single  instant the buffalo was after me. Kneeling down on his uninjured  knee--for one leg, that of which I had broken the shoulder, was swinging  helplessly to and fro--he set to work to try and hook me out of the hole  with his crooked horn. At first he struck at me furiously, and it was  one of the blows against the base of the tree which splintered the tip  of the horn in the way that you see. Then he grew more cunning,  and pushed his head as far under the root as possible, made long  semicircular sweeps at me, grunting furiously, and blowing saliva and  hot steamy breath all over me. I was just out of reach of the horn,  though every stroke, by widening the hole and making more room for his  head, brought it closer to me, but every now and again I received heavy 
