lay still, and I knew that he was dead. A lion generally dies upon his  side.    “With a sigh of relief I looked up towards his mate upon the ant-heap.  She was standing there apparently petrified with astonishment, looking  over her shoulder, and lashing her tail; but to our intense joy, when  the dying beast ceased roaring, she turned, and, with one enormous  bound, vanished into the night.    “Then we advanced cautiously towards the prostrate brute, Mashune  droning an improvised Zulu song as he went, about how Macumazahn, the  hunter of hunters, whose eyes are open by night as well as by day, put  his hand down the lion’s stomach when it came to devour him and  pulled out his heart by the roots, &c., &c., by way of expressing his  satisfaction, in his hyperbolical Zulu way, at the turn events had  taken.    “There was no need for caution; the lion was as dead as though he had  already been stuffed with straw. The Martini bullet had entered within  an inch of the white spot I had aimed at, and travelled right through  him, passing out at the right buttock, near the root of the tail. The  Martini has wonderful driving power, though the shock it gives to the  system is, comparatively speaking, slight, owing to the smallness of the  hole it makes. But fortunately the lion is an easy beast to kill.    “I passed the rest of that night in a profound slumber, my head reposing  upon the deceased lion’s flank, a position that had, I thought, a  beautiful touch of irony about it, though the smell of his singed hair  was disagreeable. When I woke again the faint primrose lights of dawn  were flushing in the eastern sky. For a moment I could not understand  the chill sense of anxiety that lay like a lump of ice at my heart, till  the feel and smell of the skin of the dead lion beneath my head recalled  the circumstances in which we were placed. I rose, and eagerly looked  round to see if I could discover any signs of Hans, who, if he had  escaped accident, would surely return to us at dawn, but there were 
