“‘Nonsense! thy heart is dead with fear, thou seest double;’ and I bent  forward over the edge of the surrounding fence, and stared at the heap.    “Even as I said the words, the dark mass rose and stalked out into the  moonlight. It was a magnificent, black-maned lion, one of the largest  I had ever seen. When he had gone two or three steps he caught sight of  me, halted, and stood there gazing straight towards us;--he was so close  that I could see the firelight reflected in his wicked, greenish eyes.    “‘Shoot, shoot!’ said Mashune. ‘The devil is coming--he is going to  spring!’    “I raised the rifle, and got the bit of paper on the foresight, straight  on to a little path of white hair just where the throat is set into  the chest and shoulders. As I did so, the lion glanced back over his  shoulder, as, according to my experience, a lion nearly always does  before he springs. Then he dropped his body a little, and I saw his big  paws spread out upon the ground as he put his weight on them to gather  purchase. In haste I pressed the trigger of the Martini, and not a  moment too soon; for, as I did so, he was in the act of springing. The  report of the rifle rang out sharp and clear on the intense silence of  the night, and in another second the great brute had landed on his  head within four feet of us, and rolling over and over towards us,  was sending the bushes which composed our little fence flying with  convulsive strokes of his great paws. We sprang out of the other side of  the ‘skerm,’ and he rolled on to it and into it and then right through  the fire. Next he raised himself and sat upon his haunches like a great  dog, and began to roar. Heavens! how he roared! I never heard anything  like it before or since. He kept filling his lungs with air, and then  emitting it in the most heart-shaking volumes of sound. Suddenly, in the  middle of one of the loudest roars, he rolled over on to his side and  lay still, and I knew that he was dead. A lion generally dies upon his 
