setting my naked foot upon a cobra which rose upon its tail and hissed  my name, ‘Macumazahn,’ into my ear. Indeed, the cobra hissed with such  persistency that at last I roused myself.    “‘_Macumazahn, nanzia, nanzia!_’ (there, there!) whispered Mashune’s  voice into my drowsy ears. Raising myself, I opened my eyes, and I saw  Mashune kneeling by my side and pointing towards the water. Following  the line of his outstretched hand, my eyes fell upon a sight that made  me jump, old hunter as I was even in those days. About twenty paces  from the little skerm was a large ant-heap, and on the summit of the  ant-heap, her four feet rather close together, so as to find standing  space, stood the massive form of a big lioness. Her head was towards the  skerm, and in the bright moonlight I saw her lower it and lick her paws.    “Mashune thrust the Martini rifle into my hands, whispering that it was  loaded. I lifted it and covered the lioness, but found that even in that  light I could not make out the foresight of the Martini. As it would be  madness to fire without doing so, for the result would probably be that  I should wound the lioness, if, indeed, I did not miss her altogether, I  lowered the rifle; and, hastily tearing a fragment of paper from one of  the leaves of my pocket-book, which I had been consulting just before I  went to sleep, I proceeded to fix it on to the front sight. But all this  took a little time, and before the paper was satisfactorily arranged,  Mashune again gripped me by the arm, and pointed to a dark heap under  the shade of a small mimosa tree which grew not more than ten paces from  the skerm.    “‘Well, what is it?’ I whispered; ‘I can see nothing.’    “‘It is another lion,’ he answered.    “‘Nonsense! thy heart is dead with fear, thou seest double;’ and I bent  forward over the edge of the surrounding fence, and stared at the heap.    “Even as I said the words, the dark mass rose and stalked out into the  moonlight. It was a magnificent, black-maned lion, one of the largest 
