green food.    “Just after Mashune had finished his watercress, we heard the loud  ‘woof! woof!’ of a lion, who was evidently promenading much nearer to  our little skerm than was pleasant. Indeed, on looking into the darkness  and listening intently, I could hear his snoring breath, and catch the  light of his great yellow eyes. We shouted loudly, and Mashune threw  some sticks on the fire to frighten him, which apparently had the  desired effect, for we saw no more of him for a while.    “Just after we had had this fright from the lion, the moon rose in her  fullest splendour, throwing a robe of silver light over all the earth.  I have rarely seen a more beautiful moonrise. I remember that sitting in  the skerm I could with ease read faint pencil notes in my pocket-book.  As soon as the moon was up game began to trek down to the water just  below us. I could, from where I sat, see all sorts of them passing  along a little ridge that ran to our right, on their way to the drinking  place. Indeed, one buck--a large eland--came within twenty yards of the  skerm, and stood at gaze, staring at it suspiciously, his beautiful  head and twisted horns standing out clearly against the sky. I had, I  recollect, every mind to have a pull at him on the chance of providing  ourselves with a good supply of beef; but remembering that we had but  two cartridges left, and the extreme uncertainty of a shot by moonlight,  I at length decided to refrain. The eland presently moved on to the  water, and a minute or two afterwards there arose a great sound of  splashing, followed by the quick fall of galloping hoofs.    “‘What’s that, Mashune?’ I asked.    “‘That dam lion; buck smell him,’ replied the Zulu in English, of which  he had a very superficial knowledge.    “Scarcely were the words out of his mouth before we heard a sort of  whine over the other side of the pool, which was instantly answered by a  loud coughing roar close to us.    “‘By Jove!’ I said, ‘there are two of them. They have lost the buck; we 
