the feel and smell of the skin of the dead lion beneath my head recalled  the circumstances in which we were placed. I rose, and eagerly looked  round to see if I could discover any signs of Hans, who, if he had  escaped accident, would surely return to us at dawn, but there were  none. Then hope grew faint, and I felt that it was not well with the  poor fellow. Setting Mashune to build up the fire I hastily removed the  hide from the flank of the lion, which was indeed a splendid beast,  and cutting off some lumps of flesh, we toasted and ate them greedily.  Lions’ flesh, strange as it may seem, is very good eating, and tastes  more like veal than anything else.    “By the time we had finished our much-needed meal the sun was getting  up, and after a drink of water and a wash at the pool, we started to  try and find Hans, leaving the dead lion to the tender mercies of the  hyænas. Both Mashune and myself were, by constant practice, pretty  good hands at tracking, and we had not much difficulty in following  the Hottentot’s spoor, faint as it was. We had gone on in this way for  half-an-hour or so, and were, perhaps, a mile or more from the site  of our camping-place, when we discovered the spoor of a solitary bull  buffalo mixed up with the spoor of Hans, and were able, from various  indications, to make out that he had been tracking the buffalo. At  length we reached a little glade in which there grew a stunted old  mimosa thorn, with a peculiar and overhanging formation of root, under  which a porcupine, or an ant-bear, or some such animal, had hollowed  out a wide-lipped hole. About ten or fifteen paces from this thorn-tree  there was a thick patch of bush.    “‘See, Macumazahn! see!’ said Mashune, excitedly, as we drew near the  thorn; ‘the buffalo has charged him. Look, here he stood to fire at him;  see how firmly he planted his feet upon the earth; there is the mark of  his crooked toe (Hans had one bent toe). Look! here the bull came like  a boulder down the hill, his hoofs turning up the earth like a hoe. Hans 
