matters of which he knows nothing,” said Umslopogaas sententiously to  me afterwards. But all the same he could never bear any allusion to this  tree-climbing episode in his martial career, which, as it happened, had  taken place in full view of his retainers, among whom it remained the  greatest of jokes. Indeed, he wanted to kill a man, the wag of the  party, who gave him a slang name which, being translated, means  “_He-who-is-so-brave-that-he-dares-to-ride-a-water-horse-up-a-tree._”    It was all over at last, for which I thanked Providence devoutly. A good  many of the sea-cows were dead, I think twenty-one was out exact bag,  but the majority of them had escaped in one way or another, many as I  fear, wounded. I imagine that at the last the bulk of the herd overcame  its fears and swimming through our screen, passed away down the channel.  At any rate they were gone, and having ascertained that there was  nothing to be done for the man who had been trampled on my side of the  channel, I crossed it in the canoe with the object of returning quietly  to our camp to rest.    But as yet there was to be no quiet for me, for there I found Captain  Robertson, who I think had been refreshing himself out of a bottle and  was in a great state of excitement about a native who had been killed  near him who was a favourite of his, and another whose leg was broken.  He declared vehemently that the hippopotamus which had done this had  been wounded and rushed into some bushes a few hundred yards away, and  that he meant to take vengeance upon it. Indeed, he was just setting off  to do so.    Seeing his agitated state I thought it wisest to follow him. What  happened need not be set out in detail. It is sufficient to say that  he found that hippopotamus and blazed both barrels at it in the bushes,  hitting it, but not seriously. Out lumbered the creature with its mouth  open, wishing to escape. Robertson turned to fly as he was in its path,  but from one cause or another, tripped and fell down. Certainly he would  
