in a way cast a slur upon my memory and truthfulness. Also, as you will  read, as to this matter I made a promise and I have always tried to  keep my promises and to guard the secrets of others. For these reasons I  proposed, in case I neglected or forgot to destroy them myself, to leave  a direction that this should be done by my executors. Further, I have  been careful to make no allusion _whatever_ to them either in casual  conversation or in anything else that I may have written, my desire  being that this page of my life should be kept quite private, something  known only to myself. Therefore, too, I never so much as hinted of them  to anyone, not even to yourself to whom I have told so much.    Well, I recorded the main facts concerning this expedition and its  issues, simply and with as much exactness as I could, and laid them  aside. I do not say that I never thought of them again, since amongst  them were some which, together with the problems they suggested, proved  to be of an unforgettable nature.    Also, whenever any of Ayesha’s sayings or stories which are not  preserved in these pages came back to me, as has happened from time to  time, I jotted them down and put them away with this manuscript. Thus  among these notes you will find a history of the city of Kôr as she told  it to me, which I have omitted here. Still, many of these remarkable  events did more or less fade from my mind, as the image does from  an unfixed photograph, till only their outlines remained, faint if  distinguishable.    To tell the truth, I was rather ashamed of the whole story in which  I cut so poor a figure. On reflection it was obvious to me, although  honesty had compelled me to set out all that is essential exactly as it  occurred, adding nothing and taking nothing away, that I had been the  victim of very gross deceit. This strange woman, whom I had met in the  ruins of a place called Kôr, without any doubt had thrown a glamour over  my senses and at the moment almost caused me to believe much that is 
