fortified with fences and in every other way known to the native mind.    With the help of the spare oxen we crossed the river safely at the ford,  although it was very full, and on the further side were received by a  guard of men, tall, soldierlike fellows, all of them armed with axes as  the messengers had been. They led us up to the cattle enclosure in the  centre of the town, which although it could be used to protect beasts in  case of emergency, also served the practical purpose of a public square.    Here some ceremony was in progress, for soldiers stood round the kraal  while heralds pranced and shouted. At the head of the place in front  of the chief’s big hut was a little group of people, among whom a big,  gaunt man sat upon a stool clad in a warrior’s dress with a great and  very long axe hafted with wire-lashed rhinoceros horn, laid across his  knees.    Our guides led me, with Hans sneaking after me like a dejected and  low-bred dog (for the waggon had stopped outside the gate), across the  kraal to where the heralds shouted and the big man sat yawning. At once  I noted that he was a very remarkable person, broad and tall and spare  of frame, with long, tough-looking arms and a fierce face which reminded  me of that of the late King Dingaan. Also he had a great hole in his  head above the temple where the skull had been driven in by some blow,  and keen, royal-looking eyes.    He looked up and seeing me, cried out,    “What! Has a white man come to fight me for the chieftainship of the  People of the Axe? Well, he is a small one.”    “No,” I answered quietly, “but Macumazahn, Watcher-by-Night, has come  to visit you in answer to your request, O Umslopogaas; Macumazahn whose  name was known in this land before yours was told of, O Umslopogaas.”    The Chief heard and rising from his seat, lifted the big axe in salute.    “I greet you, O Macumazahn,” he said, “who although you are small  in stature, are very great indeed in fame. Have I not heard how you 
