  In due course and without accident, for the weather, which had been  so wet, had now turned beautifully fine and dry, we came to the great,  flat-topped hill that I have mentioned, trekking thither over high,  sparsely-timbered veld that offered few difficulties to the waggon. This  peculiar hill, known to such natives as lived in those parts by a long  word that means “Hut-with-a-flat-roof,” is surrounded by forest, for  here trees grow wonderfully well, perhaps because of the water that  flows from its slopes. Forcing our way through this forest, which was  full of game, I reached its eastern foot and there camped, five  days before that night of full moon on which I had arranged to meet  Umslopogaas.    That I should meet him I did not in the least believe, firstly because  I thought it very probable that he would have changed his mind about  coming, and secondly for the excellent reason that I expected he had  gone to call upon the King against his will, as I had been asked to do.  It was evident to me that he was up to his eyes in some serious plot  against Cetywayo, in which he was the old dwarf Zikali’s partner, or  rather, tool; also that his plot had been betrayed, with the result that  he was “wanted” and would have little chance of passing safely through  Zululand. So taking one thing with another I imagined that I had seen  his grim face and his peculiar, ancient-looking axe for the last time.    To tell the truth I was glad. Although at first the idea had appealed to  me a little, I did not want to make this wild-goose, or wild-witch chase  through unknown lands to seek for a totally fabulous person who dwelt  far across the Zambesi. I had, as it were, been forced into the thing,  but if Umslopogaas did not appear, my obligations would be at an end  and I should return to Natal at my leisure. First, however, I would do  a little shooting since I found that a large herd of elephants haunted  this forest. Indeed I was tempted to attack them at once, but did not  do so since, as Hans pointed out, if we were going north it would be 
