leadership. So they made the best of a bad business and got themselves  ready.    Then arrangements must be made about the carrying on of the farm and  store during our absence. These, together with my waggon and oxen, were  put in the charge of Thomaso, since there was no one else who could be  trusted at all--a very battered and crestfallen Thomaso, by the way.  When he heard of it he was much relieved, since I think he feared lest  he also should be expected to take part in the hunt of the Amahagger  man-eaters. Also it may have occurred to him that in all probability  none of us would ever come back at all, in which case by a process of  natural devolution, he might find himself the owner of the business and  much valuable property. However, he swore by sundry saints--for Thomaso  was nominally a Catholic--that he would look after everything as though  it were his own, as no doubt he hoped it might become.    “Hearken, fat pig,” said Umslopogaas, Hans obligingly translating so  that there might be no mistake, “if I come back, and come back I shall  who travel with the Great Medicine--and find even one of the cattle of  the white lord, Macumazahn, Watcher-by-Night, missing, or one article  stolen from his waggon, or the fields of your master not cultivated or  his goods wasted, I swear by the Axe that I will hew you into pieces  with the axe; yes, if to do it I have to hunt you from where the sun  rises to where it sets and down the length of the night between. Do  you understand, fat pig, deserter of women and children, who to save  yourself could run faster than a buck?”    Thomaso replied that he understood very clearly indeed, and that, Heaven  helping him, all should be kept safe and sound. Still, I was sure that  in his manly heart he was promising great gifts to the saints if they  would so arrange matters that Umslopogaas and his axe were never seen at  Strathmuir again, and reflecting that after all the Amahagger had their  uses. However, as I did not trust him in the least, much against their 
