  In the end we started, conducted by Billali and by men who carried  torches whereof the light showed me that we were passing between houses,  or at any rate walls that had been those of houses, and along what  seemed to be a paved street.    Walking under what I took to be a great arch or portico, we came into  a court that was full of towering pillars but unroofed, for I could see  the stars above. At its end we entered a building of which the doorway  was hung with mats, to find that it was lighted with lamps and that  all down its length on either side guards with long spears stood at  intervals.    “Oh, Baas,” said Hans hesitatingly, “this is the mouth of a trap,” while  Umslopogaas glared about him suspiciously, fingering the handle of his  great axe.    “Be silent,” I answered. “All this mountain is a trap, therefore another  does not matter, and we have our pistols.”    Walking forward between the double line of guards who stood immovable as  statues, we came to some curtains hung at the end of a long, narrow hall  which, although I know little of such things, were, I noted, made of  rich stuff embroidered in colours and with golden threads. Before these  curtains Billali motioned us to halt.    After a whispered colloquy with someone beyond carried on through the  join of the curtains, he vanished between them, leaving us alone for  five minutes or more. At length they opened and a tall and elegant woman  with an Arab cast of countenance and clad in white robes, appeared and  beckoned to us to enter. She did not speak or answer when I spoke to  her, which was not wonderful as afterwards I discovered that she was a  mute. We went in, I wondering very much what we were going to see.    On the further side of the curtains was a room of no great size  illumined with lamps of which the light fell upon sculptured walls. It  looked to me as though it might once have been the inmost court or a  sanctuary of some temple, for at its head was a dais upon which once 
