  “I never thought of that, Baas,” commented Hans, “but it is true that  all gifts are not good, especially witches’ gifts.”    As he spoke the little net-like lightnings died away, leaving behind  them a gross darkness through which, far above us, the wind wailed  again.    Then suddenly all the heaven was turned into one blaze of light, and by  it I saw Ayesha standing tall and rigid with her hand pointed towards  the line of men in front of her. The blaze went out, to be followed by  blackness, and to return almost instantly in a yet fiercer blaze which  seemed to fall earthwards in a torrent of fire that concentrated itself  in a kind of flame-spout upon the spot where Ayesha stood.    Through that flame or rather in the heart of it, I saw Ayesha and the  file of men in front of her, as the great King saw the prophets in the  midst of the furnace that had been heated sevenfold. Only these men did  not walk about in the fire; no, they fell backwards, while Ayesha alone  remained upon her feet with outstretched hand.    Next came more blackness and crash upon crash of such thunder that the  earth shook as it reverberated from the mountain cliffs. Never in my  life did I hear such fearful thunder. It frightened the Zulus so much,  that they fell upon their faces, except Goroko and Umslopogaas, whose  pride kept them upon their feet, the former because he had a reputation  to preserve as a “Heaven-herd,” or Master of tempests.    I confess that I should have liked to follow their example, and lie  down, being dreadfully afraid lest the lightning should strike me. But  there--I did not.    At last the thunder died away and in the most mysterious fashion that  violent tempest came to a sudden end, as does a storm upon the stage. No  rain fell, which in itself was surprising enough and most unusual,  but in place of it a garment of the completest calm descended upon  the earth. By degrees, too, the darkness passed and the westering sun  reappeared. Its rays fell upon the place where the Amahagger companies 
