two broad-based ridges, shaped like those that spring from the boles of  certain tropical forest trees, ran from its crest to the plain beneath  at a gentle slope. Moreover I saw that on this plain between the ends  of the ridges an army was encamped which, by the aid of my glasses, I  examined and estimated to number at least ten thousand men.    This army, the Amahagger captains informed me, was that of Rezu, who,  they said, intended to commence his attack at dawn on the following  morning, since the People of Rezu, being sun-worshippers, would never  fight until their god appeared above the horizon. Having studied all  there was to see I asked the captains to set out their plan of battle,  if they had a plan.    The chief of them answered that it was to advance halfway down the  right-hand ridge to a spot where there was a narrow flat piece of  ground, and there await attack, since at this place their smaller  numbers would not so much matter, whereas these made it impossible for  them to assail the enemy.    “But suppose that Rezu should choose to come up to the other ridge and  get behind you. What would happen then?” I inquired.    He replied that he did not know, his ideas of strategy being, it was  clear, of a primitive order.    “Do your people fight best at night or in the day?” I went on.    He said undoubtedly at night, indeed in all their history there was no  record of their having done so in the daytime.    “And yet you propose to let Rezu join battle with you when the sun is  high, or in other words to court defeat,” I remarked.    Then I went aside and discussed things for a while with Umslopogaas and  Hans, after which I returned and gave my orders, declining all argument.  Briefly these were that in the dusk before the rising of the moon, our  Amahagger must advance down the right-hand ridge in complete silence,  and hide themselves among the scrub which I saw grew thickly near its  root. A small party, however, under the leadership of Goroko, whom I 
