fortified in a way. That is, a tall, unclimbable palisade of timber  surrounded the entire town, which fence was strengthened by prickly  pears and cacti planted on its either side.    Within this palisade the town was divided into quarters more or  less devoted to various trades. Thus one part of it was called the  Ironsmiths’ Quarter; another the Soldiers’ Quarter; another the Quarter  of the Land-tillers; another that of the Skin-dressers, and so on. The  king’s dwelling and those of his women and dependents were near the  North gate, and in front of these, surrounded by semi-circles of huts,  was a wide space into which cattle could be driven if necessary. This,  however, at the time of our visit, was used as a market and a drilling  ground.    We entered the town, that must in all have contained a great number of  inhabitants, by the South gate, a strong log structure facing a wooded  slope through which ran a road. Just as the sun was setting we marched  to the guest-huts up a central street lined with the population of the  place who had gathered to stare at us. These huts were situated in the  Soldiers’ Quarter, not far from the king’s house and surrounded by an  inner fence to keep them private.    None of the people spoke as we passed them, for the Mazitu are polite by  nature; also it seemed to me that they regarded us with awe tempered  by curiosity. They only stared, and occasionally those of them who were  soldiers saluted us by lifting their spears. The huts into which we were  introduced by Babemba, with whom we had grown very friendly, were good  and clean.    Here all our belongings, including the guns which we had collected just  before the slaves ran away, were placed in one of the huts over which  a Mazitu mounted guard, the donkeys being tied to the fence at a little  distance. Outside this fence stood another armed Mazitu, also on guard.    “Are we prisoners here?” I asked of Babemba.    “The king watches over his guests,” he answered enigmatically. “Have  the white lords any message for the king whom I am summoned to see this 
