  “Nineteen, sir,” said Woodden in a stony voice.    “Two thousand,” echoed the gentleman with the long beard.    “Twenty-one hundred,” said Woodden.    “That’s right, Mr. Woodden,” cried Mr. Primrose, “you are indeed  representing your principal worthily. I feel sure that you do not mean  to stop for a few miserable pounds.”    “Not if I knows it,” ejaculated Woodden. “I has my orders and I acts up  to them.”    “Twenty-two hundred,” said Long-beard.    “Twenty-three,” echoed Woodden.    “Oh, damn!” shouted Long-beard and rushed from the room.    “‘Odontoglossum Pavo’ is going for twenty-three hundred, only  twenty-tree hundred,” cried the auctioneer. “Any advance on twenty-three  hundred? What? None? Then I must do my duty. One. Two. For the last  time--no advance? Three. Gone to Mr. Woodden, bidding for his principal,  Mr. Somers.”    The hammer fell with a sharp tap, and at this moment my young friend  sauntered into the room.    “Well, Woodden,” he said, “have they put the ‘Pavo’ up yet?”    “It’s up and it’s down, sir. I’ve bought him right enough.”    “The deuce you have! What did it fetch?”    Woodden scratched his head.    “I don’t rightly know, sir, never was good at figures, not having much  book learning, but it’s twenty-three something.”    “£23? No, it would have brought more than that. By Jingo! it must be  £230. That’s pretty stiff, but still, it may be worth it.”    At this moment Mr. Primrose, who, leaning over his desk, was engaged in  animated conversation with an excited knot of orchid fanciers, looked  up:    “Oh! there you are, Mr. Somers,” he said. “In the name of all this  company let me congratulate you on having become the owner of the  matchless ‘Odontoglossum Pavo’ for what, under all the circumstances, I  consider the quite moderate price of £2,300.”    Really that young man took it very well. He shivered slightly and turned  a little pale, that is all. Woodden rocked to and fro like a tree about  to fall. I and my tin box collapsed together in the corner. Yes, I was 
