and yet, my father, in this case my heart is against it. Hans” (he  called him _Inblatu_, a Zulu word which means Spotted Snake, that was  the Hottentot’s Kaffir name) “says that there are quite sixty of the  yellow dogs, all armed with guns, whereas we have not more than fifteen,  for we cannot trust the slave men. Also he says that they are within a  strong fence and awake, with spies out, so that it will be difficult to  surprise them. But here, father, we are in a strong fence and cannot be  surprised. Also men who torture and kill women and children, except in  war must, I think, be cowards, and will come on faintly against good  shooting, if indeed they come at all. Therefore, I say, ‘Wait till  the buffalo shall either charge or run.’ But the word is with you,  Macumazana, wise Watcher-by-Night, not with me, your hunter. Speak, you  who are old in war, and I will obey.”    “You argue well,” I answered; “also another reason comes to my mind.  Those Arab brutes may get behind the slaves, of whom we should butcher  a lot without hurting them. Stephen, I think we had better see the thing  through here.”    “All right, Quatermain. Only I hope that Mavovo is wrong in thinking  that those blackguards may change their minds and run away.”    “Really, young man, you are becoming very blood-thirsty--for an orchid  grower,” I remarked, looking at him. “Now, for my part, I devoutly hope  that Mavovo is right, for let me tell you, if he isn’t it may be a nasty  job.”    “I’ve always been peaceful enough up to the present,” replied Stephen.  “But the sight of those unhappy wretches of slaves with their heads cut  open, and of the woman tied to a tree to starve----”    “Make you wish to usurp the functions of God Almighty,” I said. “Well,  it is a natural impulse and perhaps, in the circumstances, one that will  not displease Him. And now, as we have made up our minds what we are  going to do, let’s get to business so that these Arab gentlemen may find  their breakfast ready when they come to call.” 
