   As a passage that I lit on described how the prophet Samuel for whom I  could not help reading “Imbozwi,” hewed Agag in pieces after Bausi--I  mean Saul--had relented and spared his life, I cannot say that it  consoled me very much. Doubtless, I reflected, these people believe that  I, like Agag, had “made women childless” by my sword, so there remained  nothing save to follow the example of that unhappy king and walk  “delicately” to doom.    Then, as Stephen was still sleeping--how _could_ he do it, I wondered--I  set to work to make up the accounts of the expedition to date. It had  already cost £1,423. Just fancy expending £1,423 in order to be tied to  a post and shot to death with arrows. And all to get a rare orchid! Oh!  I reflected to myself, if by some marvel I should escape, or if I should  live again in any land where these particular flowers flourish, I would  never even look at them. And as a matter of fact I never have.    At length Stephen did wake up and, as criminals are reported to do in  the papers before execution, made an excellent breakfast.    “What’s the good of worrying?” he said presently. “I shouldn’t if it  weren’t for my poor old father. It must have come to this one day, and  the sooner it is over the sooner to sleep, as the song says. When one  comes to think of it there are enormous advantages in sleep, for that’s  the only time one is quite happy. Still, I should have liked to see that  Cypripedium first.”    “Oh! drat the Cypripedium!” I exclaimed, and blundered from the hut to  tell Sammy that if he didn’t stop his groaning I would punch his head.    “Jumps! Regular jumps! Who’d have thought it of Quatermain?” I heard  Stephen mutter in the intervals of lighting his pipe.    The morning went “like lightning that is greased,” as Sammy remarked.  Three o’clock came and Mavovo and his following sacrificed a kid to  the spirits of their ancestors, which, as Sammy remarked again, was “a  horrible, heathen ceremony much calculated to prejudice our cause with 
