got back safe, except for the Mazitu, Jerry, who doesn’t matter,  for there are plenty more like him, and the wound in Baas Stephen’s  shoulder, and that heavy flower which he thought better than brandy.”    “Yes, Hans,” I said, “I did well to take you and you are clever, for had  it not been for you, we should now be cooked and eaten in Pongo-land. I  thank you for your help, old friend. But, Hans, another time please sew  up the holes in your waistcoat pocket. Four caps wasn’t much, Hans.”    “No, Baas, but it was enough; as they were all good ones. If there had  been forty you could not have done much more. Oh! your reverend father  knew all that” (my departed parent had become a kind of patron saint to  Hans) “and did not wish this poor old Hottentot to have more to carry  than was needed. He knew you wouldn’t miss, Baas, and that there were  only one god, one devil, and one man waiting to be killed.”    I laughed, for Hans’s way of putting things was certainly original, and  having got on my coat, went to see Stephen. At the door of the tent I  met Brother John, whose shoulder was dreadfully sore from the rubbing of  the orchid stretcher, as were his hands with paddling, but who otherwise  was well enough and of course supremely happy.    He told me that he had cleansed and sewn up Stephen’s wound, which  appeared to be doing well, although the spear had pierced right through  the shoulder, luckily without cutting any artery. So I went in to see  the patient and found him cheerful enough, though weak from weariness  and loss of blood, with Miss Hope feeding him with broth from a wooden  native spoon. I didn’t stop very long, especially after he got on to  the subject of the lost orchid, about which he began to show signs of  excitement. This I allayed as well as I could by telling him that I had  preserved a pod of the seed, news at which he was delighted.    “There!” he said. “To think that you, Allan, should have remembered to  take that precaution when I, an orchidist, forgot all about it!” 
