“You have returned, as I knew you would, and now we shall learn whether  White Beard yonder spoke true words when he said that his god would be  avenged upon our god. You shall go to be avenged on him if you can,  and then we shall learn. But this time you have none of your iron tubes  which alone we fear. For did not the god declare to us through me that  when the white men came back with an iron tube, then he, the god, would  die, and I, the Motombo, the god’s Mouth, would die, and the Holy Flower  would be torn up, and the Mother of the Flower would pass away, and the  people of the Pongo would be dispersed and become wanderers and slaves?  And did he not declare that if the white men came again without their  iron tubes, then certain secret things would happen--oh! ask them not,  in time they shall be known to you, and the people of the Pongo who were  dwindling would again become fruitful and very great? And that is why we  welcome you, white men, who arise again from the land of ghosts, because  through you we, the Pongo, shall become fruitful and very great.”    Of a sudden he ceased his rumbling talk, his head sank back between his  shoulders and he sat silent for a long while, his fierce, sparkling  eyes playing on us as though he would read our very thoughts. If he  succeeded, I hope that mine pleased him. To tell the truth, I was filled  with mixed fear, fury and loathing. Although, of course, I did not  believe a word of all the rubbish he had been saying, which was akin to  much that is evolved by these black-hearted African wizards, I hated the  creature whom I felt to be only half-human. My whole nature sickened at  his aspect and talk. And yet I was dreadfully afraid of him. I felt as  a man might who wakes up to find himself alone with some peculiarly  disgusting Christmas-story kind of ghost. Moreover I was quite sure that  he meant us ill, fearful and imminent ill. Suddenly he spoke again:    “Who is that little yellow one,” he said, “that old one with a face like 
