“The blow knocked me senseless just about sunset one evening. When  I came to myself again it was broad daylight and everybody was gone,  except one old woman who was tending me. She was half-crazed with grief  because her husband and two sons had been killed, and another son, a  boy, and a daughter had been taken away. I asked her where my young wife  was. She answered that she, too, had been taken away eight or ten hours  before, because the Arabs had seen the lights of a ship out at sea, and  thought they might be those of a British man-of-war that was known to be  cruising on the coast. On seeing these they had fled inland in a hurry,  leaving me for dead, but killing the wounded before they went. The old  woman herself had escaped by hiding among some rocks on the seashore,  and after the Arabs had gone had crept back to the house and found me  still alive.    “I asked her where my wife had been taken. She said she did not know,  but some others of our people told her that they had heard the Arabs  say they were going to some place a hundred miles inland, to join their  leader, a half-bred villain named Hassan-ben-Mohammed, to whom they were  carrying my wife as a present.    “Now we knew this wretch, for after the Arabs landed at Kilwa, but  before actual hostilities broke out between us, he had fallen sick of  smallpox and my wife had helped to nurse him. Had it not been for her,  indeed, he would have died. However, although the leader of the band,  he was not present at the attack, being engaged in some slave-raiding  business in the interior.    “When I learned this terrible news, the shock of it, or the loss of  blood, brought on a return of insensibility, from which I only awoke  two days later to find myself on board a Dutch trading vessel that was  sailing for Zanzibar. It was the lights of this ship that the Arabs had  seen and mistaken for those of an English man-of-war. She had put into  Kilwa for water, and the sailors, finding me on the verandah of the 
