  I cried very much, and he took me downstairs, and after that I have only  a confused memory of men dressed in black carrying heavy burdens towards  the grey churchyard!    Next comes a vision of a great ship and wide tossing waters. My father  could no longer bear to live in England after the loss that had fallen  on him, and made up his mind to emigrate to South Africa. We must have  been poor at the time--indeed, I believe that a large portion of  our income went from my father on my mother’s death. At any rate we  travelled with the steerage passengers, and the intense discomfort of  the journey with the rough ways of our fellow emigrants still remain  upon my mind. At last it came to an end, and we reached Africa, which I  was not to leave again for many, many years.    In those days civilization had not made any great progress in Southern  Africa. My father went up the country and became a missionary among the  Kaffirs, near to where the town of Cradock now stands, and here I grew  to manhood. There were a few Boer farmers in the neighbourhood, and  gradually a little settlement of whites gathered round our mission  station--a drunken Scotch blacksmith and wheelwright was about the most  interesting character, who, when he was sober, could quote the Scottish  poet Burns and the Ingoldsby Legends, then recently published, literally  by the page. It was from that I contracted a fondness for the latter  amusing writings, which has never left me. Burns I never cared for so  much, probably because of the Scottish dialect which repelled me. What  little education I got was from my father, but I never had much leaning  towards books, nor he much time to teach them to me. On the other hand,  I was always a keen observer of the ways of men and nature. By the time  that I was twenty I could speak Dutch and three or four Kaffir dialects  perfectly, and I doubt if there was anybody in South Africa who  understood native ways of thought and action more completely than I  did. Also I was really a very good shot and horseman, and I think--as, 
