hundred or a thousand yards across by three-quarters of a mile in depth.  At the back of this indentation the sheer cliff rose to the height of  several hundred feet, and behind it and above it the great Babyan Peak  towered up towards the heavens. The space of ground, embraced thus in  the arms of the mountain, as it were, was laid out, as though by the  cunning hand of man, in three terraces that rose one above the other. To  the right and left of the topmost terrace were chasms in the cliff, and  down each chasm fell a waterfall, from no great height, indeed, but of  considerable volume. These two streams flowed away on either side of  the enclosed space, one towards the north, and the other, the course  of which we had been following, round the base of the mountain. At each  terrace they made a cascade, so that the traveller approaching had a  view of eight waterfalls at once. Along the edge of the stream to our  left were placed Kaffir kraals, built in orderly groups with verandahs,  after the Basutu fashion, and a very large part of the entire space of  land was under cultivation. All of this I noted at once, as well as the  extraordinary richness and depth of the soil, which for many ages past  had been washed down from the mountain heights. Then following the line  of an excellent waggon road, on which we now found ourselves, that wound  up from terrace to terrace, my eye lit upon the crowning wonder of the  scene. For in the centre of the topmost platform or terrace, which may  have enclosed eight or ten acres of ground, and almost surrounded by  groves of orange trees, gleamed buildings of which I had never seen the  like. There were three groups of them, one in the middle, and one on  either side, and a little to the rear, but, as I afterwards discovered,  the plan of all was the same. In the centre was an edifice constructed  like an ordinary Zulu hut--that is to say, in the shape of a beehive,  only it was five times the size of any hut I ever saw, and built  of blocks of hewn white marble, fitted together with extraordinary 
