  "That is not all," I remarked, keeping my eyes fixed on him.  "What else did he say?"    "He said, Baas, that he was very much afraid of returning to the  Baas Marnham whom the Kaffirs call White-beard, with only a few  stones left."    "Why was he afraid?"    "Because the Baas Whitebeard, he who dwells at Tampel, is, he  says, a very angry man if he thinks himself cheated, and Karl is  afraid lest he should kill him as another was killed, he whose  spook haunts the wood through which those silly people feared to  pass last night."    "Who was killed and who killed him?" I asked.    "Baas, I don't know," replied Footsack, collapsing into sullen  silence in a way that Kaffirs have when suddenly they realize  that they have said too much.  Nor did I press the matter  further, having learned enough.    What had I learned?  This: that Messrs. Marnham & Rodd were  illicit diamond buyers, I.D.B.'s as they are called, who had  cunningly situated themselves at a great distance from the scene  of operations practically beyond the reach of civilized law.  Probably they were engaged also in other nefarious dealings with  Kaffirs, such as supplying them with guns wherewith to make war  upon the Whites.  Sekukuni had been fighting us recently, so that  there would be a very brisk market for rifles.  This, too, would  account for Marnham's apparent knowledge of that Chief's plans.  Possibly, however, he had no knowledge and only made a pretence  of it to keep us out of the country.    Later on I confided the whole story and my suspicions to  Anscombe, who was much interested.    "What picturesque scoundrels!" he exclaimed, "We really ought to  go back to the Temple.  I have always longed to meet some real  live I.D.B.'s."    "It is probable that you have done that already without knowing  it.  For the rest, if you wish to visit that den of iniquity, you  must do so alone."    "Wouldn't whited sepulchre be a better term, especially as it  seems to cover dead men's bones?" he replied in his frivolous 
