 something else, namely, a woman very like one whom once I had  known.  There she stood, lightly clad enough, her fingers playing  with the blue beads of her necklace, an inscrutable smile upon  her face and her large eyes fixed on nothingness.    Oh! Heaven, I knew her, or rather thought I did at the moment,  for now I am almost sure that it was Nombe dressed, or undressed,  for the part.  That knowledge came with reflection, but then I  could have sworn, being deceived by the uncertain light, that the  long dead Mameena stood before us as she had seemed to stand  before me in the hut of Zikali, radiating a kind of supernatural  life and beauty.    A little wind arose, shaking the dry leaves of the aloes in the  kloof; I thought it whispered--_Hail, Mameena!_  Some of the  older men, too, among them a few who had seen her die, in  trembling voices murmured, "It is Mameena!" whereon Zikali  scowled at them and they grew silent.    As for the figure it stood there patient and unmoved, like one  who has all time at its disposal, playing with the blue beads.  I  heard them tinkle against each other, which proves that it was  human, for how could a wraith cause beads to tinkle, although it  is true that Christmas-story ghosts are said to clank their  chains.  Her eyes roved idly and without interest over the  semi-circle of terrified men before her.  Then by degrees they  fixed themselves upon the tree behind which I was crouching,  whereon Goza sank paralyzed to the ground.  She contemplated this  tree for a while that seemed to me interminable; it reminded me  of a setter pointing game it winded but could not see, for her  whole frame grew intent and alert.  She ceased playing with the  beads and stretched out her slender hand towards me.  Her lips  moved.  She spoke in a sweet, slow voice, saying--    "O Watcher-by-Night, is it thus you greet her to whom you have  given strength to stand once more beneath the moon?  Come hither  and tell me, have you no kiss for one from whom you parted with a 
