 wisdom, a fact which shows that the real essence of Christianity  has not yet permeated human morals.  It just runs over their  surface, no more, and for every eye that is turned towards the  divine Vision, a thousand are fixed night and day upon Mammon's  glittering image.    Now I owned certain wagons and oxen, and just then the demand for  these was keen.  So I hired them out to the military authorities  for service in the war, and incidentally myself with them.  I  drove what I considered a splendid bargain with an officer who  wrote as many letters after his name as a Governor-General, but  was really something quite humble.  At least I thought it  splendid until outside his tent I met a certain transport rider  of my acquaintance whom I had always looked upon as a perfect  fool, who told me that not half an hour before he had got twenty  per cent. more for unsalted oxen and very rickety wagons.  However, it did not matter much in the end as the whole outfit  was lost at Isandhlwana, and owing to the lack of some formality  which I had overlooked, I never recovered more than a tithe of  their value.  I think it was that I neglected to claim within a  certain specified time.    At last my wagons were laden with ammunition and other Government  goods and I trekked over awful roads to Helpmakaar, a place on  the Highlands not far from Rorke's Drift where No. 3 Column was  stationed.  Here we were delayed awhile, I and my wagons having  moved to a ford of the Buffalo, together with many others.  It  was during this time that I ventured to make very urgent  representations to certain highly placed officers, I will not  mention which, as to the necessity of laagering, that is, forming  fortified camps, as soon as Zululand was entered, since from my  intimate knowledge of its people I was sure that they would  attack in force.  These warnings of mine were received with the  most perfect politeness and offers of gin to drink, which all  transport riders were supposed to love, but in effect were 
