 to start in search of game. At any rate, as though moved by a common  impulse, they bounded suddenly away, leap by leap, and vanished in the  depths of the forest to the left. I waited for a little while longer to  see if there were any more yellow skins about, and seeing none, came to  the conclusion that the lions must have frightened the elephants away,  and that I had taken my stroll for nothing. But just as I was turning  back I thought that I heard a bough break upon the further side of the  glade, and, rash as the act was, I followed the sound. I crossed the  glade as silently as my own shadow. On its further side the path went  on. Albeit with many fears, I went on too. The jungle growth was so  thick here that it almost met overhead, leaving so small a passage for  the light that I could scarcely see to grope my way along. Presently,  however, it widened, and then opened into a second glade slightly  smaller than the first, and there, on the further side of it, about  eighty yards from me, stood the three enormous elephants.    “They stood thus:--Immediately opposite and facing me was the wounded  one-tusked bull. He was leaning his bulk against a dead thorn-tree, the  only one in the place, and looked very sick indeed. Near him stood the  second bull as though keeping a watch over him. The third elephant was  a good deal nearer to me and broadside on. While I was still staring at  them, this elephant suddenly walked off and vanished down a path in the  bush to the right.    “There are now two things to be done--either I could go back to the camp  and advance upon the elephants at dawn, or I could attack them at once.  The first was, of course, by far the wiser and safer course. To engage  one elephant by moonlight and single-handed is a sufficiently rash  proceeding; to tackle three was little short of lunacy. But, on  the other hand, I knew that they would be on the march again before  daylight, and there might come another day of weary trudging before I 
