with a shot-gun as with an eight-bore rifle. We were three guns that  day, Sir Henry Curtis, Old Quatermain, and myself; but Sir Henry was  obliged to leave in the middle of the afternoon in order to meet  his agent, and inspect an outlying farm where a new shed was wanted.  However, he was coming back to dinner, and going to bring Captain Good  with him, for Brayley Hall was not more than two miles from the Grange.    We had met with very fair sport, considering that we were only  going through outlying cover for cocks. I think that we had killed  twenty-seven, a woodcock and a leash of partridges which we secured  out of a driven covey. On our way home there lay a long narrow spinney,  which was a very favourite “lie” for woodcocks, and generally held a  pheasant or two as well.    “Well, what do you say?” said old Quatermain, “shall we beat through  this for a finish?”    I assented, and he called to the keeper who was following with a little  knot of beaters, and told him to beat the spinney.    “Very well, sir,” answered the man, “but it’s getting wonderful dark,  and the wind’s rising a gale. It will take you all your time to hit a  woodcock if the spinney holds one.”    “You show us the woodcocks, Jeffries,” answered Quatermain quickly, for  he never liked being crossed in anything to do with sport, “and we will  look after shooting them.”    The man turned and went rather sulkily. I heard him say to the  under-keeper, “He’s pretty good, the master is, I’m not saying he isn’t,  but if he kills a woodcock in this light and wind, I’m a Dutchman.”    I think that Quatermain heard him too, though he said nothing. The wind  was rising every minute, and by the time the beat begun it blew big  guns. I stood at the right-hand corner of the spinney, which curved  round somewhat, and Quatermain stood at the left, about forty paces from  me. Presently an old cock pheasant came rocketing over me, looking as  though the feathers were being blown out of his tail. I missed him clean 
