 hunters and gun-bearers, that he must have seen or heard something. I  looked at his face, and saw that he was staring excitedly towards the  dim edge of the bush beyond the deep green line of mealies. I stared  too, and listened. Presently I heard a soft large sound as though a  giant were gently stretching out his hands and pressing back the ears  of standing corn. Then came a pause, and then, out into the open  majestically stalked the largest elephant I ever saw or ever shall see.  Heavens! what a monster he was; and how the moonlight gleamed upon his  one splendid tusk--for the other was missing--as he stood among the  mealies gently moving his enormous ears to and fro, and testing the  wind with his trunk. While I was still marvelling at his girth, and  speculating upon the weight of that huge tusk, which I swore should be  my tusk before very long, out stepped a second bull and stood beside  him. He was not quite so tall, but he seemed to me to be almost  thicker-set than the first; and even in that light I could see that both  his tusks were perfect. Another pause, and the third emerged. He was  shorter than either of the others, but higher in the shoulder than No.  2; and when I tell you, as I afterwards learnt from actual measurement,  that the smallest of these mighty bulls measured twelve feet one and a  half inches at the shoulder, it will give you some idea of their size.  The three formed into line and stood still for a minute, the one-tusked  bull gently caressing the elephant on the left with his trunk.    “Then they began to feed, walking forward and slightly to the right as  they gathered great bunches of the sweet mealies and thrust them into  their mouths. All this time they were more than a hundred and twenty  yards away from me (this I knew, because I had paced the distances from  the tree to various points), much too far to allow of my attempting  a shot at them in that uncertain light. They fed in a semicircle,  gradually drawing round towards the hut near my tree, in which the corn 
