 mind, had conceived the idea of running a store at Pretoria upon  strictly cash principles. The arrangement was that I should find  the capital and he the experience. Our partnership was not of a long  duration. The Boers refused to pay cash, and at the end of four months  my partner had the capital and I had the experience. After this I came  to the conclusion that store-keeping was not in my line, and having  four hundred pounds left, I sent my boy Harry to a school in Natal, and  buying an outfit with what remained of the money, started upon a big  trip.    “This time I determined to go further afield than I had ever been  before; so I took a passage for a few pounds in a trading brig that  ran between Durban and Delagoa Bay. From Delagoa Bay I marched inland  accompanied by twenty porters, with the idea of striking up north,  towards the Limpopo, and keeping parallel to the coast, but at a  distance of about one hundred and fifty miles from it. For the first  twenty days of our journey we suffered a good deal from fever, that is,  my men did, for I think that I am fever proof. Also I was hard put to  it to keep the camp in meat, for although the country proved to be very  sparsely populated, there was but little game about. Indeed, during all  that time I hardly killed anything larger than a waterbuck, and, as you  know, waterbuck’s flesh is not very appetising food. On the twentieth  day, however, we came to the banks of a largish river, the Gonooroo it  was called. This I crossed, and then struck inland towards a great range  of mountains, the blue crests of which we could see lying on the distant  heavens like a shadow, a continuation, as I believe, of the Drakensberg  range that skirts the coast of Natal. From this main range a great spur  shoots out some fifty miles or so towards the coast, ending abruptly in  one tremendous peak. This spur I discovered separated the territories of  two chiefs named Nala and Wambe, Wambe’s territory being to the north,  and Nala’s to the south. Nala ruled a tribe of bastard Zulus called 
