in this way, and wounded a third, for being at the top of the koppie  these men were most exposed to the fire from the dip at its base. Seeing  that the situation was growing most serious, at length, by the dint of  threats and entreaties, I persuaded the majority of our people to cease  firing useless shots, to reload, and prepare for the rush. Scarcely had  I done so when the enemy came for us with a roar. I am bound to say that  I should never have believed that Matukus had it in them to make such  a determined charge. A large party rushed round the base of the koppie,  and attacked us in flank, while the others swarmed wherever they could  get a foothold, so that we were taken on every side.    “‘_Fire!_’ I cried, and we did with terrible effect. Many of their men  fell, but though we checked we could not stop them. They closed up and  rushed the first fortification, killing a good number of its defenders.  It was almost all cold steel work now, for we had no time to reload, and  that suited the Butiana habits of fighting well enough, for the stabbing  assegai is a weapon which they understand. Those of our people who  escaped from the first line of walls took refuge in the second, where  I stood myself, encouraging them, and there the fight raged fiercely.  Occasionally parties of the enemy would force a passage, only to perish  on the hither side beneath the Butiana spears. But still they kept  it up, and I saw that, fight as we would, we were doomed. We were  altogether outnumbered, and to make matters worse, fresh bodies  of soldiers were pouring across the plain to the assistance of our  assailants. So I made up my mind to direct a retreat into the caves,  and there expire in a manner as heroic as circumstances would allow; and  while mentally lamenting my hard fate and reflecting on my sins I fought  away like a fiend. It was then, I remember, that I shot my friend the  captain of our escort of the previous day. He had caught sight of  me, and making a vicious dig at my stomach with a spear (which I 
