 “_Crash!_ we were in them now, and fighting like demons. _Crash!_ from  the other side. Nala’s impi was at its work, and still the spears  and plumes appeared for a moment against the brown background of the  mountain, and then sprang down and rushed like a storm upon the foe.  The great mob of men turned this way and turned that way, astonished,  bewildered, overborne by doubt and terror.    “Meanwhile the slayers stayed not their hands, and on every side spears  flashed, and the fierce shout of triumph went up to heaven. There too on  the wall stood Maiwa, a white garment streaming from her shoulders, an  assegai in her hand, her breast heaving, her eyes flashing. Above all  the din of battle I could catch the tones of her clear voice as she  urged the soldiers on to victory. But victory was not yet. Wambe’s  soldiers gathered themselves together, and bore our men back by the  sheer weight of numbers. They began to give, then once more they  rallied, and the fight hung doubtfully.    “‘Slay, you war-whelps,’ cried Maiwa from the wall. ‘Are you afraid,  you women, you chicken-hearted women! Strike home, or die like dogs!  What--you give way! Follow me, children of Nala.’ And with one long cry  she leapt from the wall as leaps a stricken antelope, and holding the  spear poised rushed right into the thickest of the fray. The warriors  saw her, and raised such a shout that it echoed like thunder against the  mountains. They massed together, and following the flutter of her white  robe crashed into the dense heart of the foe. Down went the Matuku  before them like trees before a whirlwind. Nothing could stand in the  face of such a rush as that. It was as the rush of a torrent bursting  its banks. All along their line swept the wild desperate charge; and  there, straight in the forefront of the battle, still waved the white  robe of Maiwa.    “Then they broke, and, stricken with utter panic, Wambe’s soldiers  streamed away a scattered crowd of fugitives, while after them thundered  the footfall of the victors.    “The fight was over, we had won the day; and for my part I sat down upon 
