Butiana people stand up upon its tail and prosper the war, for so shall  we be rid of Wambe and the tyrannies of Wambe.’    “After that the girl Maiwa stood up, and once more producing the  dreadful little dried hand, made her father and several of his head  councillors swear by it and upon it that they would carry out the war of  vengeance to the bitter end. It was a very curious sight to see. And by  the way, the fight that ensued was thereafter known among the tribes of  that district as the War of the Little Hand.    “The next two days were busy ones for us. Messengers were sent out,  and every available man of the Butiana tribe was ordered up to ‘a great  dance.’ The country was small, and by the evening of the second day,  some twelve hundred and fifty men were assembled with their assegais and  shields, and a fine hardy troop they were. At dawn of the following day,  the fourth from the departure of the heralds, the main impi, having  been doctored in the usual fashion, started under the command of Nala  himself, who, knowing that his life and chieftainship hung upon the  issue of the struggle, wisely determined to be present to direct it.  With them went Maiwa, who was to guide them up the secret path. Of  course we were obliged to give them two days’ start, as they had more  than a hundred miles of rough country to pass, including the crossing of  the great mountain range which ran north and south, for it was necessary  that the impi should make a wide détour in order to escape detection.    “At length, however, at dawn on the sixth day, I took the road,  accompanied by my most unwilling bearers, who did not at all like the  idea of thus putting their heads into the lion’s mouth. Indeed, it was  only the fear of Nala’s spears, together with a vague confidence in  myself, that induced them to accept the adventure. With me also were  about two hundred Butianas, all armed with guns of various kinds, for  many of these people had guns, though they were not very proficient in 
