   “At the top of this slope Maiwa halted, and putting her hand over her  eyes looked back. Presently she touched me on the arm and pointed across  the sea of forest towards a comparatively vacant space of country some  six or seven miles away. I looked, and suddenly I saw something flash in  the red rays of the setting sun. A pause, and then another quick flash.    “‘What is it?’ I asked.    “‘It is the spears of Wambe’s impi, and they travel fast,’ she answered  coolly.    “I suppose that my face showed how little I liked the news, for she went  on--    “‘Fear not; they will stay to feast upon the elephants, and while they  feast we shall journey. We may yet escape.’    “After that we turned and pushed on again, till at length it grew so  dark that we had to wait for the rising of the moon, which lost us  time, though it gave us rest. Fortunately none of the men had seen that  ominous flashing of the spears; if they had, I doubt if even I could  have kept control of them. As it was, they travelled faster than I had  ever known loaded natives to go before, so thorough-paced was their  desire to see the last of Wambe’s country. I, however, took the  precaution to march last of all, fearing lest they should throw away  their loads to lighten themselves, or, worse still, the tusks; for these  kind of fellows would be capable of throwing anything away if their own  skins were at stake. If the pious Æneas, whose story you were reading  to me the other night, had been a mongrel Delagoa Bay native, Anchises  would have had a poor chance of getting out of Troy, that is, if he was  known to have made a satisfactory will.    “At moonrise we set out again, and with short occasional halts travelled  till dawn, when we were forced to rest and eat. Starting once more,  about half-past five, we crossed the river at noon. Then began the long  toilsome ascent through thick bush, the same in which I shot the bull  buffalo, only some twenty miles to the west of that spot, and not more 
