 numbers, would be taken, and they should be hunted down.    “This advice was at once declared to be wise, and acted on. The women  were despatched, and I saw from their faces that they never expected to  get such terms, and did not think that their mission would be in vain.  Nevertheless, we spent that afternoon in preparations against possible  surprise, and also in collecting all the wounded of both parties into a  hospital, which we extemporized out of some huts, and there attending to  them as best we could.    “That evening Every had the first pipe of tobacco that he had tasted  for six years. Poor fellow, he nearly cried with joy over it. The night  passed without any sign of attack, and on the following morning we began  to see the effect of our message, for women, children, and a few men  came in in little knots, and took possession of their huts. It was of  course rather difficult to prevent our men from looting, and generally  going on as natives, and for the matter of that white men too, are in  the habit of doing after a victory. But one man who after warning was  caught maltreating a woman was brought out and killed by Nala’s order,  and though there was a little grumbling, that put a stop to further  trouble.    “On the second morning the head men and numbers of their followers came  in in groups, and about midday a deputation of the former presented  themselves before us without their weapons. They were conquered, they  said, and Wambe was dead, so they came to hear the words of the great  lion who had eaten them up, and of the crafty white man, the jackal, who  had dug a hole for them to fall in, and of Maiwa, Lady of War, who had  led the charge and turned the fate of the battle.    “So we let them hear the words, and when we had done an old man rose and  said, that in the name of the people he accepted the yoke that was laid  upon their shoulders, and that the more gladly because even the rule of  a woman could not be worse than the rule of Wambe. Moreover, they knew 
