“Then tell his people that he had better be quick about it, or I shall  turn him out,” replied the proud Saduko.    Just at this moment the kraal gate opened and through it appeared  Umbezi, looking extremely fat and foolish; also, it struck me,  frightened, although this he tried to conceal.    “Who visits me here,” he said, “with so much--um--ceremony?” and with  the carved dancing-stick he carried he pointed doubtfully at the lines  of armed men. “Oh, it is you, is it, Saduko?” and he looked him up  and down, adding: “How grand you are to be sure. Have you been robbing  anybody? And you, too, Macumazahn. Well, _you_ do not look grand. You  look like an old cow that has been suckling two calves on the winter  veld. But tell me, what are all these warriors for? I ask because I have  not food for so many, especially as we have just had a feast here.”    “Fear nothing, Umbezi,” answered Saduko in his grandest manner. “I have  brought food for my own men. As for my business, it is simple. You asked  a hundred head of cattle as the lobola [that is, the marriage gift] of  your daughter, Mameena. They are there. Go send your servants to the  kraal and count them.”    “Oh, with pleasure,” Umbezi replied nervously, and he gave some orders  to certain men behind him. “I am glad to see that you have become rich  in this sudden fashion, Saduko, though how you have done so I cannot  understand.”    “Never mind how I have become rich,” answered Saduko. “I _am_ rich; that  is enough for the present. Be pleased to send for Mameena, for I would  talk with her.”    “Yes, yes, Saduko, I understand that you would talk with Mameena;  but”--and he looked round him desperately--“I fear that she is still  asleep. As you know, Mameena was always a late riser, and, what is more,  she hates to be disturbed. Don’t you think that you could come back,  say, to-morrow morning? She will be sure to be up by then; or, better  still, the day after?”    “In which hut is Mameena?” asked Saduko sternly, while I, smelling a 
