  I must admit that my acquaintance with this people dates from a period  which closed almost before your day. What I know of them I gathered  at the time when Cetewayo, of whom my volume tells, was in his glory,  previous to the evil hour in which he found himself driven by the  clamour of his regiments, cut off, as they were, through the annexation  of the Transvaal, from their hereditary trade of war, to match himself  against the British strength. I learned it all by personal observation  in the ‘seventies, or from the lips of the great Shepstone, my chief and  friend, and from my colleagues Osborn, Fynney, Clarke and others, every  one of them long since “gone down.”    Perhaps it may be as well that this is so, at any rate in the case of  one who desires to write of the Zulus as a reigning nation, which now  they have ceased to be, and to try to show them as they were, in all  their superstitious madness and bloodstained grandeur.    Yet then they had virtues as well as vices. To serve their Country in  arms, to die for it and for the King; such was their primitive ideal. If  they were fierce they were loyal, and feared neither wounds nor doom; if  they listened to the dark redes of the witch-doctor, the trumpet-call  of duty sounded still louder in their ears; if, chanting their terrible  “Ingoma,” at the King’s bidding they went forth to slay unsparingly, at  least they were not mean or vulgar. From those who continually must face  the last great issues of life or death meanness and vulgarity are  far removed. These qualities belong to the safe and crowded haunts of  civilised men, not to the kraals of Bantu savages, where, at any rate of  old, they might be sought in vain.    Now everything is changed, or so I hear, and doubtless in the balance  this is best. Still we may wonder what are the thoughts that pass  through the mind of some ancient warrior of Chaka’s or Dingaan’s time,  as he suns himself crouched on the ground, for example, where once stood  the royal kraal, Duguza, and watches men and women of the Zulu blood 
