wearing only a cloak of leopard skins open in front, for he was  unadorned with the usual hideous trappings of a witch-doctor, such as  snake-skins, human bones, bladders full of unholy compounds, and so  forth.    What a man he was, if indeed he could be called quite human. His  stature, though stout, was only that of a child; his head was enormous,  and from it plaited white hair fell down on to his shoulders. His eyes  were deep and sunken, his face was broad and very stern. Except for this  snow-white hair, however, he did not look ancient, for his flesh was  firm and plump, and the skin on his cheeks and neck unwrinkled, which  suggested to me that the story of his great antiquity was false. A man  who was over a hundred years old, for instance, surely could not boast  such a beautiful set of teeth, for even at that distance I could see  them gleaming. On the other hand, evidently middle age was far behind  him; indeed, from his appearance it was quite impossible to guess even  approximately the number of his years. There he sat, red in the red  light, perfectly still, and staring without a blink of his eyes at the  furious ball of the setting sun, as an eagle is said to be able to do.    Saduko advanced, and I walked after him. My stature is not great, and  I have never considered myself an imposing person, but somehow I do not  think that I ever felt more insignificant than on this occasion. The  tall and splendid native beside, or rather behind whom I walked, the  gloomy magnificence of the place, the blood-red light in which it was  bathed, and the solemn, solitary, little figure with wisdom stamped upon  its face before me, all tended to induce humility in a man not naturally  vain. I felt myself growing smaller and smaller, both in a moral and a  physical sense; I wished that my curiosity had not prompted me to seek  an interview with yonder uncanny being.    Well, it was too late to retreat; indeed, Saduko was already standing  before the dwarf and lifting his right arm above his head as he gave him 
