  “Why not do your own hunting, Masapo?” asked Saduko. “Come, now, I  will promise you good sport. Outside this kraal there are other hyenas  waiting who call me chief--a hundred or two of them--assembled for a  certain purpose by the royal leave of King Panda, whose House, as we all  know, you hate. Come, leave that beef and beer and begin your hunting of  hyenas, O Masapo.”    Now Masapo sat silent, for he saw that he who thought to snare a baboon  had caught a tiger.    “You do not speak, O Chief of the little Amansomi,” went on Saduko, who  was beside himself with rage and jealousy. “You will not leave your beef  and beer to hunt the hyenas who are captained by an umfokazana! Well,  then, the umfokazana will speak,” and, stepping up to Masapo, with the  spear he carried poised in his right hand, Saduko grasped his rival’s  short beard with his left.    “Listen, Chief,” he said. “You and I are enemies. You seek the woman I  seek, and, mayhap, being rich, you will buy her. But if so, I tell you  that I will kill you and all your House, you sneaking, half-bred dog!”    With these fierce words he spat in his face and tumbled him backwards.  Then, before anyone could stop him, for Umbezi, and even Masapo’s  headmen, seemed paralysed with surprise, he stalked through the kraal  gate, saying as he passed me:    “Inkoosi, I have words for you when you are at liberty.”    “You shall pay for this,” roared Umbezi after him, turning almost green  with rage, for Masapo still lay upon his broad back, speechless, “you  who dare to insult my guest in my own house.”    “Somebody must pay,” cried back Saduko from the gate, “but who it is  only the unborn moons will see.”    “Mameena,” I said as I followed him, “you have set fire to the grass,  and men will be burned in it.”    “I meant to, Macumazahn,” she answered calmly. “Did I not tell you  that there was a flame in me, and it will break out sometimes? But,  Macumazahn, it is you who have set fire to the grass, not I. Remember 
