the finish of this fight. Farewell.”    Then off he hurried, followed by his orderlies and staff-officers.    I never saw him again alive, though I think that once in after years I  did meet his idhlozi in his kraal under strange circumstances. But that  has nothing to do with this history.    As for me, having reloaded, I mounted my horse again, being afraid lest,  if I went on shooting, I should miss and spoil my reputation. Besides,  what was the use of killing more men unless I was obliged? There were  plenty ready to do that.    Another minute, and the regiment in front of us began to move, while the  other two behind it ostentatiously sat themselves down in their ranks,  to show that they did not mean to spoil sport. The fight was to begin  with a duel between about six thousand men.    “Good!” muttered the warrior who was nearest me. “They are in our bag.”    “Aye,” answered another, “those little boys” (used as a term of  contempt) “are going to learn their last lesson.”    For a few seconds there was silence, while the long ranks leant forward  between the hedges of lean and cruel spears. A whisper went down the  line; it sounded like the noise of wind among trees, and was the signal  to prepare. Next a far-off voice shouted some word, which was repeated  again and again by other voices before and behind me. I became aware  that we were moving, quite slowly at first, then more quickly. Being  lifted above the ranks upon my horse I could see the whole advance,  and the general aspect of it was that of a triple black wave, each wave  crowned with foam--the white plumes and shields of the Amawombe were  the foam--and alive with sparkles of light--their broad spears were the  light.    We were charging now--and oh! the awful and glorious excitement of that  charge! Oh, the rush of the bending plumes and the dull thudding of  eight thousand feet! The Usutu came up the slope to meet us. In silence  we went, and in silence they came. We drew near to each other. Now we 
