to do some trading, but, as I was in no particular hurry, my plan was  to go round by Masapo’s, and see for myself how it fared between him and  Mameena. Indeed, I reached the borders of the Amasomi territory, whereof  Masapo was chief, by evening, and camped there. But with the night came  reflection, and reflection told me that I should do well to keep clear  of Mameena and her domestic complications, if she had any. So I changed  my mind, and next morning trekked on to Nodwengu by the only route  that my guides reported to be practicable, one which took me a long way  round.    That day, owing to the roughness of the road--if road it could be  called--and an accident to one of the wagons, we only covered about  fifteen miles, and as night fell were obliged to outspan at the first  spot where we could find water. When the oxen had been unyoked I  looked about me, and saw that we were in a place that, although I had  approached it from a somewhat different direction, I recognised at once  as the mouth of the Black Kloof, in which, over a year before, I had  interviewed Zikali the Little and Wise. There was no mistaking the  spot; that blasted valley, with the piled-up columns of boulders and the  overhanging cliff at the end of it, have, so far as I am aware, no exact  counterparts in Africa.    I sat upon the box of the first wagon, eating my food, which consisted  of some biltong and biscuit, for I had not bothered to shoot any game  that day, which was very hot, and wondering whether Zikali were still  alive, also whether I should take the trouble to walk up the kloof and  find out. On the whole I thought that I would not, as the place repelled  me, and I did not particularly wish to hear any more of his prophecies  and fierce, ill-omened talk. So I just sat there studying the wonderful  effect of the red evening light pouring up between those walls of  fantastic rocks.    Presently I perceived, far away, a single human figure--whether it were  man or woman I could not tell--walking towards me along the path which 
