 again.    “It is rather a long story,” he answered, “but, to put it shortly, years  ago, when I was travelling in Africa, Mr. Quatermain and I had a dispute  as to a sum of £5 which he thought I owed him, and to save argument  about a trifle we have agreed that I should shoot against him for it  to-day.”    “Indeed,” said Lord Ragnall rather seriously, for I could see that  he did not believe Van Koop’s statement as to the amount of the bet;  perhaps he had heard more than we thought. “To be frank, Sir Junius, I  don’t much care for betting--for that’s what it comes to--here. Also I  think Mr. Quatermain said yesterday that he had never shot pheasants in  England, so the match seems scarcely fair. However, you gentlemen know  your own business best. Only I must tell you both that if money is  concerned, I shall have to set someone whose decision will be final to  count your birds and report the number to me.”    “Agreed,” said Van Koop, or, rather, Sir Junius; but I answered nothing,  for, to tell the truth, already I felt ashamed of the whole affair.    As it happened, Lord Ragnall and I walked together ahead of the others,  to the first covert, which was half a mile or more away.    “You have met Sir Junius before?” he said to me interrogatively.    “I have met Mr. van Koop before,” I answered, “about twelve years  since, shortly after which he vanished from South Africa, where he was a  well-known and very successful--speculator.”    “To reappear here. Ten years ago he bought a large property in this  neighbourhood. Three years ago he became a baronet.”    “How did a man like Van Koop become a baronet?” I inquired.    “By purchase, I believe.”    “By purchase! Are honours in England purchased?”    “You are delightfully innocent, Mr. Quatermain, as a hunter from Africa  should be,” said Lord Ragnall, laughing. “Your friend----”    “Excuse me, Lord Ragnall, I am a very humble person, not so elevated,  indeed, as that gamekeeper of yours; therefore I should not venture to 
