what seemed to be an absolutely desperate quest for over twenty years,  until, with some humble assistance on my part, he brought it to a  curiously successful issue. But all this tale is told in “The Holy  Flower,” and I only allude to it here, that is at present, to explain  how I came to be in England.    While in this country I stayed for a few days with Scroope, or, rather,  with his fiancée and her people, at a fine house in Essex. (I called it  Essex to avoid the place being identified, but really it was one of the  neighbouring counties.) During my visit I was taken to see a much finer  place, a splendid old castle with brick gateway towers, that had been  wonderfully well restored and turned into a most luxurious modern  dwelling. Let us call it “Ragnall,” the seat of a baron of that name.    I had heard a good deal about Lord Ragnall, who, according to all  accounts, seemed a kind of Admirable Crichton. He was said to be  wonderfully handsome, a great scholar--he had taken a double first at  college; a great athlete--he had been captain of the Oxford boat at the  University race; a very promising speaker who had already made his mark  in the House of Lords; a sportsman who had shot tigers and other large  game in India; a poet who had published a successful volume of verse  under a pseudonym; a good solider until he left the Service; and lastly,  a man of enormous wealth, owning, in addition to his estates, several  coal mines and an entire town in the north of England.    “Dear me!” I said when the list was finished, “he seems to have been  born with a whole case of gold spoons in his mouth. I hope one of them  will not choke him,” adding: “Perhaps he will be unlucky in love.”    “That’s just where he is most lucky of all,” answered the young lady to  whom I was talking--it was Scroope’s fiancée, Miss Manners--“for he is  engaged to a lady that, I am told, is the loveliest, sweetest, cleverest  girl in all England, and they absolutely adore each other.” 
