and the roar of the gale, or both; also in rubbing my shoulder with  ointment, for it was sore from the recoil of the guns. Then Scroope  appeared, as, being unable to find my way about the long passages of  that great old castle, I had asked him to do, and we descended together  to the large drawing-room.    It was a splendid apartment, only used upon state occasions, lighted,  I should think, with at least two or three hundred wax candles, which  threw a soft glow over the panelled and pictured walls, the priceless  antique furniture, and the bejewelled ladies who were gathered there. To  my mind there never was and never will be any artificial light to equal  that of wax candles in sufficient quantity. The company was large; I  think thirty sat down to dinner that night, which was given to introduce  Lord Ragnall’s future wife to the neighbourhood, whereof she was  destined to be the leader.    Miss Manners, who was looking very happy and charming in her jewels and  fine clothes, joined us at once, and informed Scroope that “she” was  just coming; the maid in the cloakroom had told her so.    “Is she?” replied Scroope indifferently. “Well, so long as you have come  I don’t care about anyone else.”    Then he told her she was looking beautiful, and stared at her with such  affection that I fell back a step or two and contemplated a picture of  Judith vigorously engaged in cutting off the head of Holofernes.    Presently the large door at the end of the room was thrown open and the  immaculate Savage, who was acting as a kind of master of the ceremonies,  announced in well-bred but penetrating tones, “Lady Longden and the  Honourable Miss Holmes.” I stared, like everybody else, but for a while  her ladyship filled my eye. She was an ample and, to my mind, rather  awful-looking person, clad in black satin--she was a widow--and very  large diamonds. Her hair was white, her nose was hooked, her dark eyes  were penetrating, and she had a bad cold in her head. That was all I  found time to notice about her, for suddenly her daughter came into my 
