   “O Slayer of evil men and beasts!” they went on, in their rich-voiced,  monotonous chant, “who, as our magic tells us, are destined to deliver  our land from the terrible scourge, we greet you, we bow before you, we  acknowledge you as our lord and brother, to whom we vow safety among us  and in the desert, to whom we promise a great reward.”    Again they bowed, once, twice, thrice; then stood silent before me with  folded arms.    “What on earth are they saying?” asked Scroope. “I could catch a few  words”--he knew a little kitchen Zulu--“but not much.”    I told him briefly while the others listened.    “What does Mameena mean?” asked Miss Holmes, with a horrible acuteness.  “Is it a woman’s name?”    Hearing her, Harût and Marût bowed as though doing reverence to that  name. I am sorry to say that at this point I grew confused, though  really there was no reason why I should, and muttered something about a  native girl who had made trouble in her day.    Miss Holmes and the other ladies looked at me with amused disbelief,  and to my dismay the venerable Harût turned to Miss Holmes, and with his  inevitable bow, said in broken English:    “Mameena very beautiful woman, perhaps more beautiful than you, lady.  Mameena love the white lord Macumazana. She love him while she live, she  love him now she dead. She tell me so again just now. You ask white lord  tell you pretty story of how he kiss her before she kill herself.”    Needless to say all this very misleading information was received by the  audience with an attention that I can but call rapt, and in a kind of  holy silence which was broken only by a sudden burst of sniggering on  the part of Scroope. I favoured him with my fiercest frown. Then I fell  upon that venerable villain Harût, and belaboured him in Bantu, while  the audience listened as intently as though they understood.    I asked him what he meant by coming here to asperse my character. I  asked him who the deuce he was. I asked him how he came to know anything 
