 “You see how it stands,” I said to Ragnall. “We have been brought here  to fight for our friends, Harût, Marût and Co., against their rebellious  subjects, or rather the king who reigns jointly with them.”    “It looks like it,” he replied quietly, “but doubtless we shall find  out the truth in time and meanwhile speculation is no good. Do you go to  bed, Quatermain, I will watch till midnight and then wake you.”    That night passed in safety. Next day we marched before the dawn,  passing through country that grew continually better watered and more  fertile, though it was still open plain but sloping upwards ever more  steeply. On this plain I saw herds of antelopes and what in the distance  looked like cattle, but no human being. Before evening we camped where  there was good water and plenty of food for the camels.    While the camp was being set Harût came and invited us to follow him to  the outposts, whence he said we should see a view. We walked with him, a  matter of not more than a quarter of a mile to the head of that rise up  which we had been travelling all day, and thence perceived one of  the most glorious prospects on which my eyes have fallen in all great  Africa. From where we stood the land sloped steeply for a matter of ten  or fifteen miles, till finally the fall ended in a vast plain like to  the bottom of a gigantic saucer, that I presume in some far time of the  world’s history was once an enormous lake. A river ran east and west  across this plain and into it fell tributaries. Far beyond this river  the contours of the country rose again till, many, many miles away,  there appeared a solitary hill, tumulus-shaped, which seemed to be  covered with bush.    Beyond and surrounding this hill was more plain which with the aid of my  powerful glasses was, we could see, bordered at last by a range of  great mountains, looking like a blue line pencilled across the northern  distance. To the east and west the plain seemed to be illimitable.  Obviously its soil was of a most fertile character and supported numbers 
