place, sit down and eat while I talk with priests. Be afraid nothing;  you quite safe.”    “Why should we be afraid? It is you who should be afraid, you who stole  the lady and brought Bena to his death. Do you not remember the words of  your own Oracle, Harût?”    “Yes, I know words, but how _you_ know them _that_ I not know,” he  replied.    Then he issued some orders, as a result of which a guard formed itself  about us and conducted us through the crowd and along the passage to the  second court of the temple, which was now empty. Here the guard left us  but remained at the mouth of the passage, keeping watch. Presently women  brought us food and drink, of which Hans and I partook heartily though  Ragnall, who was so near to his lost wife and yet so far away, could eat  but little. Mingled joy because after these months of arduous search he  found her yet alive, and fear lest she should again be taken from him  for ever, deprived him of all appetite.    While we ate, priests to the number of about a dozen, who I suppose had  been summoned by Harût, were admitted by the guard and, gathering out of  earshot of us between the altar and the sanctuary, entered on an earnest  discussion with him. Watching their faces I could see that there was a  strong difference of opinion between them, about half taking one view  on the matter of which they disputed, and half another. At length Harût  made some proposition to which they all agreed. Then the door of the  sanctuary was opened with a strange sort of key which one of the priests  produced, showing a dark interior in which gleamed a white object, I  suppose the statue of the Child. Harût and two others entered, the door  being closed behind them. About five minutes later they appeared again  and others, who listened earnestly and after renewed consultation  signified assent by holding up the right hand. Now one of the priests  walked to where we were and, bowing, begged us to advance to the altar.  This we did, and were stood in a line in front of it, Hans being set in 
