   An hour or so later the usual fire appeared in the marketplace, round  which the usual figures flitted dimly. The sight of them fascinated  me, although I did not want to look, fearing what I might see. Luckily,  however, we were too far off to discern anything at night.    While these unholy ceremonies were in progress the climax came, that is  so far as the weather was concerned. Of a sudden a great gale sprang  up, a gale of icy wind such as in Southern Africa sometimes precedes  a thunderstorm. It blew for half an hour or more, then lulled. Now  lightning flashed across the heavens, and by the glare of it we  perceived that all the population of Simba Town seemed to be gathered in  the market-place. At least there were some thousands of them, talking,  gesticulating, pointing at the sky.    A few minutes later there came a great crash of thunder, of which it  was impossible to locate the sound, for it rolled from everywhere. Then  suddenly something hard struck the roof by my side and rebounded, to be  followed next moment by a blow upon my shoulder which nearly knocked me  flat, although I was well protected by the skin rugs.    “Down the stair!” I called. “They are stoning us,” and suited the action  to the word.    Ten seconds later we were both in the room, crouched in its farther  corner, for the stones or whatever they were seemed to be following us.  I struck a match, of which fortunately I had some, together with my pipe  and a good pocketful of tobacco--my only solace in those days--and, as  it burned up, saw first that blood was running down Marût’s face,  and secondly, that these stones were great lumps of ice, some of them  weighing several ounces, which hopped about the floor like live things.    “Hailstorm!” remarked Marût with his accustomed smile.    “Hell storm!” I replied, “for whoever saw hail like that before?”    Then the match burnt out and conversation came to an end for the reason  that we could no longer hear each other speak. The hail came down with 
