bundles of long sticks to each of which was attached a piece of white  cloth, a proceeding that excited my curiosity.    Soon its object became apparent. Swiftly these men, of whom in the end  there may have been thirty or forty, ran to and fro, testing the ground  with spears in search for pitfalls. I think they only found a very few  that had not been broken into, but in front of these and also of those  that were already full of men and horses they set up the flags as a  warning that they should be avoided in the advance. Also they removed a  number of their wounded.    We had great difficulty in restraining the White Kendah from rushing out  to attack them, which of course would only have led us into a trap in  our turn, since they would have fled and conducted their pursuers into  the arms of the enemy. Nor would I allow my riflemen to fire, as the  result must have been many misses and a great waste of ammunition which  ere long would be badly wanted. I, however, did shoot two or three, then  gave it up as the remainder took no notice whatever.    When they had thoroughly explored the ground they retired until, a  little later, the Black Kendah army began to appear, marching in serried  regiments and excellent order round the bend, till perhaps eight or ten  thousand of them were visible, a very fierce and awe-inspiring _impi_.  Their front ranks halted between three and four hundred yards away,  which I thought farther off than it was advisable to open fire on them  with Snider rifles held by unskilled troops. Then came a pause, which  at length was broken by the blowing of horns and a sound of exultant  shouting beyond the turn of the pass.    Now from round this turn appeared the strangest sight that I think my  eyes had ever seen. Yes, there came the huge elephant, Jana, at a slow,  shambling trot. On his back and head were two men in whom, with my  glasses, I recognized the lame priest whom I already knew too well and  Simba, the king of the Black Kendah, himself, gorgeously apparelled and 
