 assistance of all the priests and of all the women and children who  were not engaged in provisioning the Mount, he built wall after wall and  redoubt after redoubt, if that is the right word, to say nothing of the  shelter trenches he dug and many pitfalls, furnished at the bottom with  sharp stakes, which he hollowed out wherever the soil could be easily  moved, to discomfit a charging enemy.    Indeed, when I saw the amount of work he had concluded in ten  days, which was not until I joined him on the mountain, I was quite  astonished.    About this time a dispute arose as to whether we should attempt to  prevent the Black Kendah from crossing the river which was now running  down, a plan that some of the elders favoured. At last the controversy  was referred to me as head general and I decided against anything of the  sort. It seemed to me that our force was too small, and that if I took  the rifle-men a great deal of ammunition might be expended with poor  result. Also in the event of any reverse or when we were finally driven  back, which must happen, there might be difficulty about remounting the  camels, our only means of escape from the horsemen who would possibly  gallop us down. Moreover the Tava had several fords, any one of which  might be selected by the enemy. So it was arranged that we should make  our first and last stand upon the Holy Mount.    On the fourteenth night from new moon our swift camel-scouts who were  posted in relays between the Tava and the Mount reported that the Black  Kendah were gathered in thousands upon the farther side of the river,  where they were engaged in celebrating magical ceremonies. On the  fifteenth night the scouts reported that they were crossing the river,  about five thousand horsemen and fifteen thousand foot soldiers, and  that at the head of them marched the huge god-elephant Jana, on which  rode Simba the King and a lame priest (evidently my friend whose foot  had been injured by the pistol), who acted as a mahout. This part of the  story I confess I did not believe, since it seemed to me impossible that 
