Then at my command the ivory horns sounded the charge. Every man slung  his bow upon his back and drew his short sword.    “On to them!” I cried and leapt forward.    Like a black torrent we rushed down the hill, leaping over the dead and  wounded. The retreat became a rout since before these ebon, great-eyed  warriors the soft Easterns did not care to stand. They fled screaming,    “These are devils! These are devils!”    We were among them now, hacking and stabbing with the short swords upon  their heads and backs. There was no need to aim the blow, they were so  many. Like a huddled mob of cattle they turned and fled down Nile. But  my orders had reached the vanguard and these, hidden in the growing  crops on the narrow neck of swampy land between the hills and the Nile,  met them with arrows as they came, also raked them from the steep cliff  side. Their chariot wheels sank into the mud till the horses were slain;  their footmen were piled in heaps about them, till soon there was a  mighty wall of dead and dying. And our centre and rearguard came up  behind. Oh! we slew and slew, till before the sun was an hour high over  half the army of the Great King was no more. Then we re-formed, having  suffered but little loss, and drank of the water of the Nile.    “All is not done,” I cried.    For the Immortals still remained behind us, gathered in massed ranks  about their king. Also there were many thousands of others between these  and the walls of Amada, and to the south of the city yet a second army,  that with which Bes had been left to deal, with what success I knew not.    “Ethiopians,” I shouted, “cease crying Victory, since the battle is  about to begin. Strike, and at once before the Easterns find their heart  again.”    So we advanced upon the Immortals, all of us, for now the vanguard had  joined our strength.    In long lines we advanced over that blood-soaked plain, and as we came  the Great King loosed his remaining chariots against us. It availed him 
