 Or perhaps the inhabitants of the country were now stay-at-home people  who never travelled it at all.    Those slopes were longer than we thought; indeed, when darkness closed  in we had not reached the foot of them. So we were obliged to spend  another night in the snow, pitching our tent in the shelter of  an over-hanging rock. As we had descended many thousand feet, the  temperature proved, fortunately, a little milder; indeed, I do not  think that there were more than eighteen or twenty degrees of frost that  night. Also here and there the heat of the sun had melted the snow in  secluded places, so that we were able to find water to drink, while the  yak could fill its poor old stomach with dead-looking mountain mosses,  which it seemed to think better than nothing.    Again, the still dawn came, throwing its red garment over the lonesome,  endless mountains, and we dragged ourselves to our numbed feet, ate some  of our remaining food, and started onwards. Now we could no longer see  the country beneath, for it and even the towering volcano were hidden  from us by an intervening ridge that seemed to be pierced by a single  narrow gulley, towards which we headed. Indeed, as the pillars showed  us, thither ran the buried road. By mid-day it appeared quite close to  us, and we tramped on in feverish haste. As it chanced, however, there  was no need to hurry, for an hour later we learned the truth.    Between us and the mouth of the gulley rose, or rather sank, a sheer  precipice that was apparently three or four hundred feet in depth, and  at its foot we could hear the sound of water.    Right to the edge of this precipice ran the path, for one of the stone  pillars stood upon its extreme brink, and yet how could a road descend  such a place as that? We stared aghast; then a possible solution  occurred to us.    “Don’t you see,” said Leo, with a hollow laugh, “the gulf has opened  since this track was used: volcanic action probably.”    “Perhaps, or perhaps there was a wooden bridge or stairway which has 
