soil.    Here the people seemed to know us as the two foreigners whose coming had  been noised abroad, and, the fear of famine having made them bold, they  shouted at us as we went by to give them back the rain which we had  stolen, or so we understood their words. Even the women and the children  in the villages prostrated themselves before us, pointing first to the  Mountain and then to the hard, blue sky, and crying to us to send them  rain. Once, indeed, we were threatened by a mob of peasants armed with  spades and reaping-hooks, who seemed inclined to bar our path, so that  we were obliged to put our horses to a gallop and pass through them  with a rush. As we went forward the country grew ever more arid and its  inhabitants more scarce, till we saw no man save a few wandering herds  who drove their cattle from place to place in search of provender.    By evening we guessed that we had reached that border tract which was  harried by the Mountain tribes, for here strong towers built of stone  were dotted about the heaths, doubtless to serve as watch-houses or  places of refuge. Whether they were garrisoned by soldiers I do not  know, but I doubt it, for we saw none. It seems probable indeed that  these forts were relics of days when the land of Kaloon was guarded from  attack by rulers of a very different character to that of the present  Khan and his immediate predecessors.    At length even the watch-towers were left behind, and by sundown we  found ourselves upon a vast uninhabited plain, where we could see  no living thing. Now we made up our minds to rest our horses awhile,  proposing to push forward again with the moon, for having the wrath  of the Khania behind us we did not dare to linger. By this evening  doubtless she would have discovered our escape, since before sundown, as  she had decreed, Leo must make his choice and give his answer. Then,  as we were sure, she would strike swiftly. Perhaps her messengers  were already at their work rousing the country to capture us, and her 
