of the Under-world that he would receive this spirit and acquit it there  as here it had been acquitted by the Hesea, his minister.    Ere their dirge ended certain of the priests, advancing with slow steps,  lifted the bier and carried it to the edge of the gulf; then at a sign  from the Mother, hurled it feet foremost into the fiery lake below,  whilst all watched to see how it struck the flame. For this they held to  be an omen, since should the body turn over in its descent it was taken  as a sign that the judgment of mortal men had been refused in the Place  of the Immortals. It did not turn; it rushed downwards straight as a  plummet and plunged into the fire hundreds of feet below, and there  for ever vanished. This indeed was not strange since, as we discovered  afterwards, the feet were weighted.    In fact this solemn rite was but a formula that, down to the exact  words of judgment and committal, had been practised here from unknown  antiquity over the bodies of the priests and priestesses of the  Mountain, and of certain of the great ones of the Plain. So it was in  ancient Egypt, whence without doubt this ceremony of the trial of the  dead was derived, and so it continued to be in the land of Hes, for no  priestess ever ventured to condemn the soul of one departed.    The real interest of the custom, apart from its solemnity and awful  surroundings, centred in the accurate knowledge displayed by the masked  Accuser and Advocate of the life-deeds of the deceased. It showed that  although the College of Hes affected to be indifferent to the doings and  politics of the people of the Plain that they once ruled and over which,  whilst secretly awaiting an opportunity of re-conquest, they still  claimed a spiritual authority, the attitude was assumed rather than  real. Moreover it suggested a system of espionage so piercing and  extraordinary that it was difficult to believe it unaided by the  habitual exercise of some gift of clairvoyance.    The service, if I may call it so, was finished; the dead man had 
