our corpse-like guide, who appeared to be looking intently at the bed on  which Leo lay, or so I thought, for the head was bent in that direction.    At first she was quite still, then she moaned aloud, a low and terrible  moan, which seemed to well from the very heart.    So the thing was not dumb, as I had believed. Evidently it could suffer,  and express its suffering in a human fashion. Look! it was wringing its  padded hands as in an excess of woe. Now it would seem that Leo began to  feel its influence also, for he stirred and spoke in his sleep, so low  at first that I could only distinguish the tongue he used, which was  Arabic. Presently I caught a few words.    “Ayesha,” he said, “_Ayesha!_”    The figure glided towards him and stopped. He sat up in the bed still  fast asleep, for his eyes were shut. He stretched out his arms, as  though seeking one whom he would embrace, and spoke again in a low and  passionate voice--“Ayesha, through life and death I have sought thee  long. Come to me, my goddess, my desired.”    The figure glided yet nearer, and I could see that it was trembling, and  now its arms were extended also.    At the bedside she halted, and Leo laid himself down again. Now the  coverings had fallen back, exposing his breast, where lay the leather  satchel he always wore, that which contained the lock of Ayesha’s hair.  He was fast asleep, and the figure seemed to fix its eyes upon this  satchel. Presently it did more, for, with surprising deftness those  white-wrapped fingers opened its clasp, yes, and drew out the long  tress of shining hair. Long and earnestly she gazed at it, then gently  replaced the relic, closed the satchel and for a little while seemed to  weep. While she stood thus the dreaming Leo once more stretched out his  arms and spoke, saying, in the same passion-laden voice--“Come to me, my  darling, my beautiful, my beautiful!”    At those words, with a little muffled scream, like that of a scared  night-bird, the figure turned and flitted through the doorway. 
