 a ticket for Dresden.    “Going to see the pictures?” asked George, with a grin.    George is an inveterate gossip, and had I told him that I was off to  Ruritania, the news would have been in London in three days and in Park  Lane in a week. I was, therefore, about to return an evasive answer,  when he saved my conscience by leaving me suddenly and darting across  the platform. Following him with my eyes, I saw him lift his hat and  accost a graceful, fashionably dressed woman who had just appeared from  the booking-office. She was, perhaps, a year or two over thirty, tall,  dark, and of rather full figure. As George talked, I saw her glance at  me, and my vanity was hurt by the thought that, muffled in a fur coat  and a neck-wrapper (for it was a chilly April day) and wearing a soft  travelling hat pulled down to my ears, I must be looking very far from  my best. A moment later, George rejoined me.    “You’ve got a charming travelling companion,” he said. “That’s poor Bert  Bertrand’s goddess, Antoinette de Mauban, and, like you, she’s going to  Dresden--also, no doubt, to see the pictures. It’s very queer, though,  that she doesn’t at present desire the honour of your acquaintance.”    “I didn’t ask to be introduced,” I observed, a little annoyed.    “Well, I offered to bring you to her; but she said, ‘Another time.’  Never mind, old fellow, perhaps there’ll be a smash, and you’ll have a  chance of rescuing her and cutting out the Duke of Strelsau!”    No smash, however, happened, either to me or to Madame de Mauban. I can  speak for her as confidently as for myself; for when, after a night’s  rest in Dresden, I continued my journey, she got into the same train.  Understanding that she wished to be let alone, I avoided her carefully,  but I saw that she went the same way as I did to the very end of my  journey, and I took opportunities of having a good look at her, when I  could do so unobserved.    As soon as we reached the Ruritanian frontier (where the old officer who 
