 utterly damned by the release of the King alive and his restoration to  the throne would drive him to throw away the trump card which he held in  reserve to baulk the supposed game of the impudent impostor Rassendyll.  Musing on all this as I rode along, I took courage.    Michael knew of my coming, sure enough. I had not been in the house an  hour, when an imposing Embassy arrived from him. He did not quite reach  the impudence of sending my would-be assassins, but he sent the other  three of his famous Six--the three Ruritanian gentlemen--Lauengram,  Krafstein, and Rupert Hentzau. A fine, strapping trio they were,  splendidly horsed and admirably equipped. Young Rupert, who looked  a dare-devil, and could not have been more than twenty-two or  twenty-three, took the lead, and made us the neatest speech, wherein  my devoted subject and loving brother Michael of Strelsau, prayed me to  pardon him for not paying his addresses in person, and, further, for not  putting his Castle at my disposal; the reason for both of these apparent  derelictions being that he and several of his servants lay sick of  scarlet fever, and were in a very sad, and also a very infectious state.  So declared young Rupert with an insolent smile on his curling upper lip  and a toss of his thick hair--he was a handsome villain, and the gossip  ran that many a lady had troubled her heart for him already.    “If my brother has scarlet fever,” said I, “he is nearer my complexion  than he is wont to be, my lord. I trust he does not suffer?”    “He is able to attend to his affairs, sire.”    “I hope all beneath your roof are not sick. What of my good friends, De  Gautet, Bersonin, and Detchard? I heard the last had suffered a hurt.”    Lauengram and Krafstein looked glum and uneasy, but young Rupert’s smile  grew broader.    “He hopes soon to find a medicine for it, sire,” he answered.    And I burst out laughing, for I knew what medicine Detchard longed  for--it is called Revenge.    “You will dine with us, gentlemen?” I asked. 
