and pretended to keep a second-hand furniture shop by the square where  the cheap cabs wait) told the missionaries that she was Kim's mother's  sister; but his mother had been nursemaid in a Colonel's family and had  married Kimball O'Hara, a young colour-sergeant of the Mavericks, an  Irish regiment.  He afterwards took a post on the Sind, Punjab, and  Delhi Railway, and his Regiment went home without him.  The wife died  of cholera in Ferozepore, and O'Hara fell to drink and loafing up and  down the line with the keen-eyed three-year-old baby.  Societies and  chaplains, anxious for the child, tried to catch him, but O'Hara  drifted away, till he came across the woman who took opium and learned  the taste from her, and died as poor whites die in India.  His estate  at death consisted of three papers--one he called his 'ne varietur'  because those words were written below his signature thereon, and  another his 'clearance-certificate'.  The third was Kim's  birth-certificate.  Those things, he was used to say, in his glorious  opium-hours, would yet make little Kimball a man.  On no account was  Kim to part with them, for they belonged to a great piece of  magic--such magic as men practised over yonder behind the Museum, in  the big blue-and-white Jadoo-Gher--the Magic House, as we name the  Masonic Lodge.  It would, he said, all come right some day, and Kim's  horn would be exalted between pillars--monstrous pillars--of beauty and  strength.  The Colonel himself, riding on a horse, at the head of the  finest Regiment in the world, would attend to Kim--little Kim that  should have been better off than his father.  Nine hundred first-class  devils, whose God was a Red Bull on a green field, would attend to Kim,  if they had not forgotten O'Hara--poor O'Hara that was gang-foreman on  the Ferozepore line.  Then he would weep bitterly in the broken rush  chair on the veranda.  So it came about after his death that the woman  sewed parchment, paper, and birth-certificate into a leather  amulet-case which she strung round Kim's neck.    'And some day,' she said, confusedly remembering O'Hara's prophecies,  'there will come for you a great Red Bull on a green field, and the 
