burned like a many-coloured jewel in the same uncertain light.  The  patterns on the gold-worked curtains ran up and down, melting and  reforming as the folds shook and quivered to the night wind; and when  the talk grew more earnest the jewelled forefinger snapped out little  sparks of light between the embroideries.  Behind the cart was a wall  of uncertain darkness speckled with little flames and alive with  half-caught forms and faces and shadows.  The voices of early evening  had settled down to one soothing hum whose deepest note was the steady  chumping of the bullocks above their chopped straw, and whose highest  was the tinkle of a Bengali dancing-girl's sitar.  Most men had eaten  and pulled deep at their gurgling, grunting hookahs, which in full  blast sound like bull-frogs.    At last the lama returned.  A hillman walked behind him with a wadded  cotton-quilt and spread it carefully by the fire.    'She deserves ten thousand grandchildren,' thought Kim.  'None the  less, but for me, those gifts would not have come.'    'A virtuous woman--and a wise one.'  The lama slackened off, joint by  joint, like a slow camel.  'The world is full of charity to those who  follow the Way.'  He flung a fair half of the quilt over Kim.    'And what said she?'  Kim rolled up in his share of it.    'She asked me many questions and propounded many problems--the most of  which were idle tales which she had heard from devil-serving priests  who pretend to follow the Way.  Some I answered, and some I said were  foolish.  Many wear the Robe, but few keep the Way.'    'True.  That is true.'  Kim used the thoughtful, conciliatory tone of  those who wish to draw confidences.    'But by her lights she is most right-minded.  She desires greatly that  we should go with her to Buddh Gaya; her road being ours, as I  understand, for many days' journey to the southward.'    'And?'    'Patience a little.  To this I said that my Search came before all  things.  She had heard many foolish legends, but this great truth of my 
