snows of the horizon.  In the dawns they flared windy-red above stark  blue, as Kedarnath and Badrinath--kings of that wilderness--took the  first sunlight.  All day long they lay like molten silver under the  sun, and at evening put on their jewels again.  At first they breathed  temperately upon the travellers, winds good to meet when one crawled  over some gigantic hog's-back; but in a few days, at a height of nine  or ten thousand feet, those breezes bit; and Kim kindly allowed a  village of hillmen to acquire merit by giving him a rough blanket-coat.  The lama was mildly surprised that anyone should object to the  knife-edged breezes which had cut the years off his shoulders.    'These are but the lower hills, chela.  There is no cold till we come  to the true Hills.'    'Air and water are good, and the people are devout enough, but the food  is very bad,' Kim growled; 'and we walk as though we were mad--or  English.  It freezes at night, too.'    'A little, maybe; but only enough to make old bones rejoice in the sun.  We must not always delight in soft beds and rich food.'    'We might at least keep to the road.'    Kim had all a plainsman's affection for the well-trodden track, not six  feet wide, that snaked among the mountains; but the lama, being  Tibetan, could not refrain from short cuts over spurs and the rims of  gravel-strewn slopes.  As he explained to his limping disciple, a man  bred among mountains can prophesy the course of a mountain-road, and  though low-lying clouds might be a hindrance to a short-cutting  stranger, they made no earthly difference to a thoughtful man.  Thus,  after long hours of what would be reckoned very fair mountaineering in  civilized countries, they would pant over a saddle-back, sidle past a  few landslips, and drop through forest at an angle of forty-five onto  the road again.  Along their track lay the villages of the  hillfolk--mud and earth huts, timbers now and then rudely carved with  an axe--clinging like swallows' nests against the steeps, huddled on  tiny flats half-way down a three-thousand-foot glissade; jammed into a 
