The lama, under cover of the monologue, had faded out into the darkness  towards the room prepared.    'Thou hast angered him, belike,' said Kim.    'Not he.  He is wearied, and I forgot, being a grandmother.  (None but  a grandmother should ever oversee a child.  Mothers are only fit for  bearing.) Tomorrow, when he sees how my daughter's son is grown, he  will write the charm.  Then, too, he can judge of the new hakim's  drugs.'    'Who is the hakim, Maharanee?'    'A wanderer, as thou art, but a most sober Bengali from Dacca--a master  of medicine.  He relieved me of an oppression after meat by means of a  small pill that wrought like a devil unchained.  He travels about now,  vending preparations of great value.  He has even papers, printed in  Angrezi, telling what things he has done for weak-backed men and slack  women.  He has been here four days; but hearing ye were coming (hakims  and priests are snake and tiger the world over) he has, as I take it,  gone to cover.'    While she drew breath after this volley, the ancient servant, sitting  unrebuked on the edge of the torchlight, muttered:  'This house is a  cattle-pound, as it were, for all charlatans and--priests. Let the boy  stop eating mangoes ...  but who can argue with a grandmother?'  He  raised his voice respectfully:  'Sahiba, the hakim sleeps after his  meat.  He is in the quarters behind the dovecote.'    Kim bristled like an expectant terrier.  To outface and down-talk a  Calcutta-taught Bengali, a voluble Dacca drug-vendor, would be a good  game.  It was not seemly that the lama, and incidentally himself,  should be thrown aside for such an one.  He knew those curious bastard  English advertisements at the backs of native newspapers.  St Xavier's  boys sometimes brought them in by stealth to snigger over among their  mates; for the language of the grateful patient recounting his symptoms  is most simple and revealing.  The Oorya, not unanxious to play off one  parasite against the other, slunk away towards the dovecote.  
