still-room--drenches that smelt pestilently and tasted worse.  She  stood over Kim till they went down, and inquired exhaustively after  they had come up.  She laid a taboo upon the forecourt, and enforced it  by means of an armed man.  It is true he was seventy odd, that his  scabbarded sword ceased at the hilt; but he represented the authority  of the Sahiba, and loaded wains, chattering servants, calves, dogs,  hens, and the like, fetched a wide compass by those parts.  Best of  all, when the body was cleared, she cut out from the mass of poor  relations that crowded the back of the buildings--house-hold dogs, we  name them--a cousin's widow, skilled in what Europeans, who know  nothing about it, call massage.  And the two of them, laying him east  and west, that the mysterious earth-currents which thrill the clay of  our bodies might help and not hinder, took him to pieces all one long  afternoon--bone by bone, muscle by muscle, ligament by ligament, and  lastly, nerve by nerve.  Kneaded to irresponsible pulp, half hypnotized  by the perpetual flick and readjustment of the uneasy chudders that  veiled their eyes, Kim slid ten thousand miles into slumber--thirty-six  hours of it--sleep that soaked like rain after drought.    Then she fed him, and the house spun to her clamour.  She caused fowls  to be slain; she sent for vegetables, and the sober, slow-thinking  gardener, nigh as old as she, sweated for it; she took spices, and  milk, and onion, with little fish from the brooks--anon limes for  sherbets, fat quails from the pits, then chicken-livers upon a skewer,  with sliced ginger between.    'I have seen something of this world,' she said over the crowded trays,  'and there are but two sorts of women in it--those who take the  strength out of a man and those who put it back.  Once I was that one,  and now I am this.  Nay--do not play the priestling with me. Mine was  but a jest.  If it does not hold good now, it will when thou takest the  road again.  Cousin,'--this to the poor relation, never wearied of  extolling her patroness's charity--'he is getting a bloom on the skin 
