the sled toiled a second man.  On the sled, in the box, lay a third man  whose toil was over,--a man whom the Wild had conquered and beaten down  until he would never move nor struggle again.  It is not the way of the  Wild to like movement.  Life is an offence to it, for life is movement;  and the Wild aims always to destroy movement.  It freezes the water to  prevent it running to the sea; it drives the sap out of the trees till  they are frozen to their mighty hearts; and most ferociously and terribly  of all does the Wild harry and crush into submission man--man who is the  most restless of life, ever in revolt against the dictum that all  movement must in the end come to the cessation of movement.    But at front and rear, unawed and indomitable, toiled the two men who  were not yet dead.  Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned  leather.  Eyelashes and cheeks and lips were so coated with the crystals  from their frozen breath that their faces were not discernible.  This  gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world  at the funeral of some ghost.  But under it all they were men,  penetrating the land of desolation and mockery and silence, puny  adventurers bent on colossal adventure, pitting themselves against the  might of a world as remote and alien and pulseless as the abysses of  space.    They travelled on without speech, saving their breath for the work of  their bodies.  On every side was the silence, pressing upon them with a  tangible presence.  It affected their minds as the many atmospheres of  deep water affect the body of the diver.  It crushed them with the weight  of unending vastness and unalterable decree.  It crushed them into the  remotest recesses of their own minds, pressing out of them, like juices  from the grape, all the false ardours and exaltations and undue  self-values of the human soul, until they perceived themselves finite and  small, specks and motes, moving with weak cunning and little wisdom  amidst the play and inter-play of the great blind elements and forces. 
