had undergone, but his little brain was equally tired.  In all the days  he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.  Furthermore,  he was sleepy.  So he started out to look for the cave and his mother,  feeling at the same time an overwhelming rush of loneliness and  helplessness.    He was sprawling along between some bushes, when he heard a sharp  intimidating cry.  There was a flash of yellow before his eyes.  He saw a  weasel leaping swiftly away from him.  It was a small live thing, and he  had no fear.  Then, before him, at his feet, he saw an extremely small  live thing, only several inches long, a young weasel, that, like himself,  had disobediently gone out adventuring.  It tried to retreat before him.  He turned it over with his paw.  It made a queer, grating noise.  The  next moment the flash of yellow reappeared before his eyes.  He heard  again the intimidating cry, and at the same instant received a sharp blow  on the side of the neck and felt the sharp teeth of the mother-weasel cut  into his flesh.    While he yelped and ki-yi'd and scrambled backward, he saw the mother-  weasel leap upon her young one and disappear with it into the  neighbouring thicket.  The cut of her teeth in his neck still hurt, but  his feelings were hurt more grievously, and he sat down and weakly  whimpered.  This mother-weasel was so small and so savage.  He was yet to  learn that for size and weight the weasel was the most ferocious,  vindictive, and terrible of all the killers of the Wild.  But a portion  of this knowledge was quickly to be his.    He was still whimpering when the mother-weasel reappeared.  She did not  rush him, now that her young one was safe.  She approached more  cautiously, and the cub had full opportunity to observe her lean,  snakelike body, and her head, erect, eager, and snake-like itself.  Her  sharp, menacing cry sent the hair bristling along his back, and he  snarled warningly at her.  She came closer and closer.  There was a leap, 
