was compelled to crouch, then the walls widened and rose higher in a  little round chamber nearly six feet in diameter.  The roof barely  cleared her head.  It was dry and cosey.  She inspected it with  painstaking care, while One Eye, who had returned, stood in the entrance  and patiently watched her.  She dropped her head, with her nose to the  ground and directed toward a point near to her closely bunched feet, and  around this point she circled several times; then, with a tired sigh that  was almost a grunt, she curled her body in, relaxed her legs, and dropped  down, her head toward the entrance.  One Eye, with pointed, interested  ears, laughed at her, and beyond, outlined against the white light, she  could see the brush of his tail waving good-naturedly.  Her own ears,  with a snuggling movement, laid their sharp points backward and down  against the head for a moment, while her mouth opened and her tongue  lolled peaceably out, and in this way she expressed that she was pleased  and satisfied.    One Eye was hungry.  Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his  sleep was fitful.  He kept awaking and cocking his ears at the bright  world without, where the April sun was blazing across the snow.  When he  dozed, upon his ears would steal the faint whispers of hidden trickles of  running water, and he would rouse and listen intently.  The sun had come  back, and all the awakening Northland world was calling to him.  Life was  stirring.  The feel of spring was in the air, the feel of growing life  under the snow, of sap ascending in the trees, of buds bursting the  shackles of the frost.    He cast anxious glances at his mate, but she showed no desire to get up.  He looked outside, and half a dozen snow-birds fluttered across his field  of vision.  He started to get up, then looked back to his mate again, and  settled down and dozed.  A shrill and minute singing stole upon his  hearing.  Once, and twice, he sleepily brushed his nose with his paw.  Then he woke up.  There, buzzing in the air at the tip of his nose, was a 
