waiting for him.  As he neared her, he became suddenly cautious.  He  slowed down to an alert and mincing walk and then stopped.  He regarded  her carefully and dubiously, yet desirefully.  She seemed to smile at  him, showing her teeth in an ingratiating rather than a menacing way.  She  moved toward him a few steps, playfully, and then halted.  One Ear drew  near to her, still alert and cautious, his tail and ears in the air, his  head held high.    He tried to sniff noses with her, but she retreated playfully and coyly.  Every advance on his part was accompanied by a corresponding retreat on  her part.  Step by step she was luring him away from the security of his  human companionship.  Once, as though a warning had in vague ways flitted  through his intelligence, he turned his head and looked back at the  overturned sled, at his team-mates, and at the two men who were calling  to him.    But whatever idea was forming in his mind, was dissipated by the  she-wolf, who advanced upon him, sniffed noses with him for a fleeting  instant, and then resumed her coy retreat before his renewed advances.    In the meantime, Bill had bethought himself of the rifle.  But it was  jammed beneath the overturned sled, and by the time Henry had helped him  to right the load, One Ear and the she-wolf were too close together and  the distance too great to risk a shot.    Too late One Ear learned his mistake.  Before they saw the cause, the two  men saw him turn and start to run back toward them.  Then, approaching at  right angles to the trail and cutting off his retreat they saw a dozen  wolves, lean and grey, bounding across the snow.  On the instant, the she-  wolf's coyness and playfulness disappeared.  With a snarl she sprang upon  One Ear.  He thrust her off with his shoulder, and, his retreat cut off  and still intent on regaining the sled, he altered his course in an  attempt to circle around to it.  More wolves were appearing every moment  and joining in the chase.  The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and 
