his hair, sparse and irregular of growth, muddy-yellow and dirty-yellow,  rising on his head and sprouting out of his face in unexpected tufts and  bunches, in appearance like clumped and wind-blown grain.    In short, Beauty Smith was a monstrosity, and the blame of it lay  elsewhere.  He was not responsible.  The clay of him had been so moulded  in the making.  He did the cooking for the other men in the fort, the  dish-washing and the drudgery.  They did not despise him.  Rather did  they tolerate him in a broad human way, as one tolerates any creature  evilly treated in the making.  Also, they feared him.  His cowardly rages  made them dread a shot in the back or poison in their coffee.  But  somebody had to do the cooking, and whatever else his shortcomings,  Beauty Smith could cook.    This was the man that looked at White Fang, delighted in his ferocious  prowess, and desired to possess him.  He made overtures to White Fang  from the first.  White Fang began by ignoring him.  Later on, when the  overtures became more insistent, White Fang bristled and bared his teeth  and backed away.  He did not like the man.  The feel of him was bad.  He  sensed the evil in him, and feared the extended hand and the attempts at  soft-spoken speech.  Because of all this, he hated the man.    With the simpler creatures, good and bad are things simply understood.  The good stands for all things that bring easement and satisfaction and  surcease from pain.  Therefore, the good is liked.  The bad stands for  all things that are fraught with discomfort, menace, and hurt, and is  hated accordingly.  White Fang's feel of Beauty Smith was bad.  From the  man's distorted body and twisted mind, in occult ways, like mists rising  from malarial marshes, came emanations of the unhealth within.  Not by  reasoning, not by the five senses alone, but by other and remoter and  uncharted senses, came the feeling to White Fang that the man was ominous  with evil, pregnant with hurtfulness, and therefore a thing bad, and 
