 it.  Upon his inward sight was impressed a succession of memory-pictures.  He saw the camp again, the tepees, and the blaze of the fires.  He heard  the shrill voices of the women, the gruff basses of the men, and the  snarling of the dogs.  He was hungry, and he remembered pieces of meat  and fish that had been thrown him.  Here was no meat, nothing but a  threatening and inedible silence.    His bondage had softened him.  Irresponsibility had weakened him.  He had  forgotten how to shift for himself.  The night yawned about him.  His  senses, accustomed to the hum and bustle of the camp, used to the  continuous impact of sights and sounds, were now left idle.  There was  nothing to do, nothing to see nor hear.  They strained to catch some  interruption of the silence and immobility of nature.  They were appalled  by inaction and by the feel of something terrible impending.    He gave a great start of fright.  A colossal and formless something was  rushing across the field of his vision.  It was a tree-shadow flung by  the moon, from whose face the clouds had been brushed away.  Reassured,  he whimpered softly; then he suppressed the whimper for fear that it  might attract the attention of the lurking dangers.    A tree, contracting in the cool of the night, made a loud noise.  It was  directly above him.  He yelped in his fright.  A panic seized him, and he  ran madly toward the village.  He knew an overpowering desire for the  protection and companionship of man.  In his nostrils was the smell of  the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.  He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no  shadows nor darknesses.  But no village greeted his eyes.  He had  forgotten.  The village had gone away.    His wild flight ceased abruptly.  There was no place to which to flee.  He  slunk forlornly through the deserted camp, smelling the rubbish-heaps and  the discarded rags and tags of the gods.  He would have been glad for the 
