 Then there was his lightning quickness.  It gave him a tremendous  advantage over his antagonists.  No matter what their fighting  experience, they had never encountered a dog that moved so swiftly as he.  Also to be reckoned with, was the immediateness of his attack.  The  average dog was accustomed to the preliminaries of snarling and bristling  and growling, and the average dog was knocked off his feet and finished  before he had begun to fight or recovered from his surprise.  So often  did this happen, that it became the custom to hold White Fang until the  other dog went through its preliminaries, was good and ready, and even  made the first attack.    But greatest of all the advantages in White Fang's favour, was his  experience.  He knew more about fighting than did any of the dogs that  faced him.  He had fought more fights, knew how to meet more tricks and  methods, and had more tricks himself, while his own method was scarcely  to be improved upon.    As the time went by, he had fewer and fewer fights.  Men despaired of  matching him with an equal, and Beauty Smith was compelled to pit wolves  against him.  These were trapped by the Indians for the purpose, and a  fight between White Fang and a wolf was always sure to draw a crowd.  Once, a full-grown female lynx was secured, and this time White Fang  fought for his life.  Her quickness matched his; her ferocity equalled  his; while he fought with his fangs alone, and she fought with her sharp-  clawed feet as well.    But after the lynx, all fighting ceased for White Fang.  There were no  more animals with which to fight--at least, there was none considered  worthy of fighting with him.  So he remained on exhibition until spring,  when one Tim Keenan, a faro-dealer, arrived in the land.  With him came  the first bull-dog that had ever entered the Klondike.  That this dog and  White Fang should come together was inevitable, and for a week the  anticipated fight was the mainspring of conversation in certain quarters  of the town.  
