   There was no defence for him.  If he turned upon them, Mit-sah would  throw the stinging lash of the whip into his face.  Only remained to him  to run away.  He could not encounter that howling horde with his tail and  hind-quarters.  These were scarcely fit weapons with which to meet the  many merciless fangs.  So run away he did, violating his own nature and  pride with every leap he made, and leaping all day long.    One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that  nature recoil upon itself.  Such a recoil is like that of a hair, made to  grow out from the body, turning unnaturally upon the direction of its  growth and growing into the body--a rankling, festering thing of hurt.  And so with White Fang.  Every urge of his being impelled him to spring  upon the pack that cried at his heels, but it was the will of the gods  that this should not be; and behind the will, to enforce it, was the whip  of cariboo-gut with its biting thirty-foot lash.  So White Fang could  only eat his heart in bitterness and develop a hatred and malice  commensurate with the ferocity and indomitability of his nature.    If ever a creature was the enemy of its kind, White Fang was that  creature.  He asked no quarter, gave none.  He was continually marred and  scarred by the teeth of the pack, and as continually he left his own  marks upon the pack.  Unlike most leaders, who, when camp was made and  the dogs were unhitched, huddled near to the gods for protection, White  Fang disdained such protection.  He walked boldly about the camp,  inflicting punishment in the night for what he had suffered in the day.  In the time before he was made leader of the team, the pack had learned  to get out of his way.  But now it was different.  Excited by the day-  long pursuit of him, swayed subconsciously by the insistent iteration on  their brains of the sight of him fleeing away, mastered by the feeling of  mastery enjoyed all day, the dogs could not bring themselves to give way 
