maltreated.  It was no reasoned impulse that made White Fang do what he  then did.  A mad rush of anger sent him leaping in amongst the  combatants.  Five minutes later the landscape was covered with fleeing  boys, many of whom dripped blood upon the snow in token that White Fang's  teeth had not been idle.  When Mit-sah told the story in camp, Grey  Beaver ordered meat to be given to White Fang.  He ordered much meat to  be given, and White Fang, gorged and sleepy by the fire, knew that the  law had received its verification.    It was in line with these experiences that White Fang came to learn the  law of property and the duty of the defence of property.  From the  protection of his god's body to the protection of his god's possessions  was a step, and this step he made.  What was his god's was to be defended  against all the world--even to the extent of biting other gods.  Not only  was such an act sacrilegious in its nature, but it was fraught with  peril.  The gods were all-powerful, and a dog was no match against them;  yet White Fang learned to face them, fiercely belligerent and unafraid.  Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's  property alone.    One thing, in this connection, White Fang quickly learnt, and that was  that a thieving god was usually a cowardly god and prone to run away at  the sounding of the alarm.  Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed  between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.  He  came to know that it was not fear of him that drove the thief away, but  fear of Grey Beaver.  White Fang did not give the alarm by barking.  He  never barked.  His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to  sink his teeth in if he could.  Because he was morose and solitary,  having nothing to do with the other dogs, he was unusually fitted to  guard his master's property; and in this he was encouraged and trained by  Grey Beaver.  One result of this was to make White Fang more ferocious 
