 "You have only Weedon's opinion for that," rejoined the judge.  "He  merely surmises that there is some strain of dog in White Fang; but as he  will tell you himself, he knows nothing about it.  As for his  appearance--"    He did not finish his sentence.  White Fang stood before him, growling  fiercely.    "Go away!  Lie down, sir!" Judge Scott commanded.    White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.  She screamed with fright as  he seized her dress in his teeth and dragged on it till the frail fabric  tore away.  By this time he had become the centre of interest.    He had ceased from his growling and stood, head up, looking into their  faces.  His throat worked spasmodically, but made no sound, while he  struggled with all his body, convulsed with the effort to rid himself of  the incommunicable something that strained for utterance.    "I hope he is not going mad," said Weedon's mother.  "I told Weedon that  I was afraid the warm climate would not agree with an Arctic animal."    "He's trying to speak, I do believe," Beth announced.    At this moment speech came to White Fang, rushing up in a great burst of  barking.    "Something has happened to Weedon," his wife said decisively.    They were all on their feet now, and White Fang ran down the steps,  looking back for them to follow.  For the second and last time in his  life he had barked and made himself understood.    After this event he found a warmer place in the hearts of the Sierra  Vista people, and even the groom whose arm he had slashed admitted that  he was a wise dog even if he was a wolf.  Judge Scott still held to the  same opinion, and proved it to everybody's dissatisfaction by  measurements and descriptions taken from the encyclopaedia and various  works on natural history.    The days came and went, streaming their unbroken sunshine over the Santa  Clara Valley.  But as they grew shorter and White Fang's second winter in  the Southland came on, he made a strange discovery.  Collie's teeth were 
