nae grenadiers.  But that can never be.  To your last day you’ll ken no  more of women-folk than what I do of sow-gelding.”    I had never been used with such expressions from a lady’s tongue, the  only two ladies I had known, Mrs. Campbell and my mother, being most  devout and most particular women; and I suppose my amazement must have  been depicted in my countenance, for Mrs. Ogilvy burst forth suddenly in  a fit of laughter.    “Keep me!” she cried, struggling with her mirth, “you have the finest  timber face—and you to marry the daughter of a Hieland cateran!  Davie,  my dear, I think we’ll have to make a match of it—if it was just to see  the weans.  And now,” she went on, “there’s no manner of service in your  daidling here, for the young woman is from home, and it’s my fear that  the old woman is no suitable companion for your father’s son.  Forbye  that I have nobody but myself to look after my reputation, and have been  long enough alone with a sedooctive youth.  And come back another day for  your saxpence!” she cried after me as I left.    My skirmish with this disconcerting lady gave my thoughts a boldness they  had otherwise wanted.  For two days the image of Catriona had mixed in  all my meditations; she made their background, so that I scarce enjoyed  my own company without a glint of her in a corner of my mind.  But now  she came immediately near; I seemed to touch her, whom I had never  touched but the once; I let myself flow out to her in a happy weakness,  and looking all about, and before and behind, saw the world like an  undesirable desert, where men go as soldiers on a march, following their  duty with what constancy they have, and Catriona alone there to offer me  some pleasure of my days.  I wondered at myself that I could dwell on  such considerations in that time of my peril and disgrace; and when I  remembered my youth I was ashamed.  I had my studies to complete: I had  to be called into some useful business; I had yet to take my part of 
