amongst my friends and enemies unremarked.    The first that I singled out was Prestongrange.  He sat well forward,  like an eager horseman in the saddle, his lips moving with relish, his  eyes glued on the minister; the doctrine was clearly to his mind.  Charles Stewart, on the other hand, was half asleep, and looked harassed  and pale.  As for Simon Fraser, he appeared like a blot, and almost a  scandal, in the midst of that attentive congregation, digging his hands  in his pockets, shifting his legs, clearing his throat, and rolling up  his bald eyebrows and shooting out his eyes to right and left, now with a  yawn, now with a secret smile.  At times, too, he would take the Bible in  front of him, run it through, seem to read a bit, run it through again,  and stop and yawn prodigiously: the whole as if for exercise.    In the course of this restlessness his eye alighted on myself.  He sat a  second stupefied, then tore a half-leaf out of the Bible, scrawled upon  it with a pencil, and passed it with a whispered word to his next  neighbour.  The note came to Prestongrange, who gave me but the one look;  thence it voyaged to the hands of Mr. Erskine; thence again to Argyle,  where he sat between the other two lords of session, and his Grace turned  and fixed me with an arrogant eye.  The last of those interested in my  presence was Charlie Stewart, and he too began to pencil and hand about  dispatches, none of which I was able to trace to their destination in the  crowd.    But the passage of these notes had aroused notice; all who were in the  secret (or supposed themselves to be so) were whispering information—the  rest questions; and the minister himself seemed quite discountenanced by  the flutter in the church and sudden stir and whispering.  His voice  changed, he plainly faltered, nor did he again recover the easy  conviction and full tones of his delivery.  It would be a puzzle to him  till his dying day, why a sermon that had gone with triumph through four  parts, should thus miscarry in the fifth. 
