 miserable, dirty huts, and squalid population; then through the  "European town," which presented a relief in its bright brick mansions,  shaded by coconut-trees and bristling with masts, where, although it  was early morning, elegantly dressed horsemen and handsome equipages  were passing back and forth.    The carriage stopped before a modest-looking house, which, however, did  not have the appearance of a private mansion.  The policeman having  requested his prisoners--for so, truly, they might be called--to descend,  conducted them into a room with barred windows, and said:  "You will  appear before Judge Obadiah at half-past eight."    He then retired, and closed the door.    "Why, we are prisoners!" exclaimed Passepartout, falling into a chair.    Aouda, with an emotion she tried to conceal, said to Mr. Fogg: "Sir,  you must leave me to my fate!  It is on my account that you receive  this treatment, it is for having saved me!"    Phileas Fogg contented himself with saying that it was impossible.  It  was quite unlikely that he should be arrested for preventing a suttee.  The complainants would not dare present themselves with such a charge.  There was some mistake.  Moreover, he would not, in any event, abandon  Aouda, but would escort her to Hong Kong.    "But the steamer leaves at noon!" observed Passepartout, nervously.    "We shall be on board by noon," replied his master, placidly.    It was said so positively that Passepartout could not help muttering to  himself, "Parbleu that's certain!  Before noon we shall be on board."  But he was by no means reassured.    At half-past eight the door opened, the policeman appeared, and,  requesting them to follow him, led the way to an adjoining hall.  It  was evidently a court-room, and a crowd of Europeans and natives  already occupied the rear of the apartment.    Mr. Fogg and his two companions took their places on a bench opposite  the desks of the magistrate and his clerk.  Immediately after, Judge  Obadiah, a fat, round man, followed by the clerk, entered.  He  proceeded to take down a wig which was hanging on a nail, and put it 
