Phileas Fogg rightly suspected that his departure from London would  create a lively sensation at the West End.  The news of the bet spread  through the Reform Club, and afforded an exciting topic of conversation  to its members.  From the club it soon got into the papers throughout  England.  The boasted "tour of the world" was talked about, disputed,  argued with as much warmth as if the subject were another Alabama  claim.  Some took sides with Phileas Fogg, but the large majority shook  their heads and declared against him; it was absurd, impossible, they  declared, that the tour of the world could be made, except  theoretically and on paper, in this minimum of time, and with the  existing means of travelling.  The Times, Standard, Morning Post, and  Daily News, and twenty other highly respectable newspapers scouted Mr.  Fogg's project as madness; the Daily Telegraph alone hesitatingly  supported him.  People in general thought him a lunatic, and blamed his  Reform Club friends for having accepted a wager which betrayed the  mental aberration of its proposer.    Articles no less passionate than logical appeared on the question, for  geography is one of the pet subjects of the English; and the columns  devoted to Phileas Fogg's venture were eagerly devoured by all classes  of readers.  At first some rash individuals, principally of the gentler  sex, espoused his cause, which became still more popular when the  Illustrated London News came out with his portrait, copied from a  photograph in the Reform Club.  A few readers of the Daily Telegraph  even dared to say, "Why not, after all?  Stranger things have come to  pass."    At last a long article appeared, on the 7th of October, in the bulletin  of the Royal Geographical Society, which treated the question from  every point of view, and demonstrated the utter folly of the enterprise.    Everything, it said, was against the travellers, every obstacle imposed  alike by man and by nature.  A miraculous agreement of the times of  departure and arrival, which was impossible, was absolutely necessary  to his success.  He might, perhaps, reckon on the arrival of trains at  the designated hours, in Europe, where the distances were relatively 
