 reach Allahabad, his owner would receive no less than six hundred  pounds sterling.    Phileas Fogg, without getting in the least flurried, then proposed to  purchase the animal outright, and at first offered a thousand pounds  for him.  The Indian, perhaps thinking he was going to make a great  bargain, still refused.    Sir Francis Cromarty took Mr. Fogg aside, and begged him to reflect  before he went any further; to which that gentleman replied that he was  not in the habit of acting rashly, that a bet of twenty thousand pounds  was at stake, that the elephant was absolutely necessary to him, and  that he would secure him if he had to pay twenty times his value.  Returning to the Indian, whose small, sharp eyes, glistening with  avarice, betrayed that with him it was only a question of how great a  price he could obtain.  Mr. Fogg offered first twelve hundred, then  fifteen hundred, eighteen hundred, two thousand pounds.  Passepartout,  usually so rubicund, was fairly white with suspense.    At two thousand pounds the Indian yielded.    "What a price, good heavens!" cried Passepartout, "for an elephant."    It only remained now to find a guide, which was comparatively easy.  A  young Parsee, with an intelligent face, offered his services, which Mr.  Fogg accepted, promising so generous a reward as to materially  stimulate his zeal.  The elephant was led out and equipped.  The  Parsee, who was an accomplished elephant driver, covered his back with  a sort of saddle-cloth, and attached to each of his flanks some  curiously uncomfortable howdahs.  Phileas Fogg paid the Indian with  some banknotes which he extracted from the famous carpet-bag, a  proceeding that seemed to deprive poor Passepartout of his vitals.  Then he offered to carry Sir Francis to Allahabad, which the brigadier  gratefully accepted, as one traveller the more would not be likely to  fatigue the gigantic beast.  Provisions were purchased at Kholby, and,  while Sir Francis and Mr. Fogg took the howdahs on either side,  Passepartout got astride the saddle-cloth between them.  The Parsee  perched himself on the elephant's neck, and at nine o'clock they set 
