 "Oh," replied Stuart, "the Bank will lose the money."    "On the contrary," broke in Ralph, "I hope we may put our hands on the  robber.  Skilful detectives have been sent to all the principal ports  of America and the Continent, and he'll be a clever fellow if he slips  through their fingers."    "But have you got the robber's description?" asked Stuart.    "In the first place, he is no robber at all," returned Ralph,  positively.    "What! a fellow who makes off with fifty-five thousand pounds, no  robber?"    "No."    "Perhaps he's a manufacturer, then."    "The Daily Telegraph says that he is a gentleman."    It was Phileas Fogg, whose head now emerged from behind his newspapers,  who made this remark.  He bowed to his friends, and entered into the  conversation.  The affair which formed its subject, and which was town  talk, had occurred three days before at the Bank of England.  A package  of banknotes, to the value of fifty-five thousand pounds, had been  taken from the principal cashier's table, that functionary being at the  moment engaged in registering the receipt of three shillings and  sixpence.  Of course, he could not have his eyes everywhere.  Let it be  observed that the Bank of England reposes a touching confidence in the  honesty of the public.  There are neither guards nor gratings to  protect its treasures; gold, silver, banknotes are freely exposed, at  the mercy of the first comer.  A keen observer of English customs  relates that, being in one of the rooms of the Bank one day, he had the  curiosity to examine a gold ingot weighing some seven or eight pounds.  He took it up, scrutinised it, passed it to his neighbour, he to the  next man, and so on until the ingot, going from hand to hand, was  transferred to the end of a dark entry; nor did it return to its place  for half an hour.  Meanwhile, the cashier had not so much as raised his  head.  But in the present instance things had not gone so smoothly.  The package of notes not being found when five o'clock sounded from the 
