 wharves, a Gothic cathedral, a government house, macadamised streets,  give to Hong Kong the appearance of a town in Kent or Surrey  transferred by some strange magic to the antipodes.    Passepartout wandered, with his hands in his pockets, towards the  Victoria port, gazing as he went at the curious palanquins and other  modes of conveyance, and the groups of Chinese, Japanese, and Europeans  who passed to and fro in the streets.  Hong Kong seemed to him not  unlike Bombay, Calcutta, and Singapore, since, like them, it betrayed  everywhere the evidence of English supremacy.  At the Victoria port he  found a confused mass of ships of all nations: English, French,  American, and Dutch, men-of-war and trading vessels, Japanese and  Chinese junks, sempas, tankas, and flower-boats, which formed so many  floating parterres.  Passepartout noticed in the crowd a number of the  natives who seemed very old and were dressed in yellow.  On going into  a barber's to get shaved he learned that these ancient men were all at  least eighty years old, at which age they are permitted to wear yellow,  which is the Imperial colour.  Passepartout, without exactly knowing  why, thought this very funny.    On reaching the quay where they were to embark on the Carnatic, he was  not astonished to find Fix walking up and down.  The detective seemed  very much disturbed and disappointed.    "This is bad," muttered Passepartout, "for the gentlemen of the Reform  Club!"  He accosted Fix with a merry smile, as if he had not perceived  that gentleman's chagrin.  The detective had, indeed, good reasons to  inveigh against the bad luck which pursued him.  The warrant had not  come!  It was certainly on the way, but as certainly it could not now  reach Hong Kong for several days; and, this being the last English  territory on Mr. Fogg's route, the robber would escape, unless he could  manage to detain him.    "Well, Monsieur Fix," said Passepartout, "have you decided to go with  us so far as America?"    "Yes," returned Fix, through his set teeth.    "Good!" exclaimed Passepartout, laughing heartily.  "I knew you could 
