 mast, which, however, the metallic lashings held firmly.  These  lashings, like the chords of a stringed instrument, resounded as if  vibrated by a violin bow.  The sledge slid along in the midst of a  plaintively intense melody.    "Those chords give the fifth and the octave," said Mr. Fogg.    These were the only words he uttered during the journey.  Aouda, cosily  packed in furs and cloaks, was sheltered as much as possible from the  attacks of the freezing wind.  As for Passepartout, his face was as red  as the sun's disc when it sets in the mist, and he laboriously inhaled  the biting air.  With his natural buoyancy of spirits, he began to hope  again.  They would reach New York on the evening, if not on the  morning, of the 11th, and there was still some chances that it would be  before the steamer sailed for Liverpool.    Passepartout even felt a strong desire to grasp his ally, Fix, by the  hand.  He remembered that it was the detective who procured the sledge,  the only means of reaching Omaha in time; but, checked by some  presentiment, he kept his usual reserve.  One thing, however,  Passepartout would never forget, and that was the sacrifice which Mr.  Fogg had made, without hesitation, to rescue him from the Sioux.  Mr.  Fogg had risked his fortune and his life. No!  His servant would never  forget that!    While each of the party was absorbed in reflections so different, the  sledge flew past over the vast carpet of snow.  The creeks it passed  over were not perceived.  Fields and streams disappeared under the  uniform whiteness.  The plain was absolutely deserted.  Between the  Union Pacific road and the branch which unites Kearney with Saint  Joseph it formed a great uninhabited island.  Neither village, station,  nor fort appeared.  From time to time they sped by some phantom-like  tree, whose white skeleton twisted and rattled in the wind.  Sometimes  flocks of wild birds rose, or bands of gaunt, famished, ferocious  prairie-wolves ran howling after the sledge.  Passepartout, revolver in  hand, held himself ready to fire on those which came too near.  Had an 
