  Passepartout had at last found something to do.  He was engaged to act  in the celebrated Japanese troupe.  It was not a very dignified  position, but within a week he would be on his way to San Francisco.    The performance, so noisily announced by the Honourable Mr. Batulcar,  was to commence at three o'clock, and soon the deafening instruments of  a Japanese orchestra resounded at the door.  Passepartout, though he  had not been able to study or rehearse a part, was designated to lend  the aid of his sturdy shoulders in the great exhibition of the "human  pyramid," executed by the Long Noses of the god Tingou.  This "great  attraction" was to close the performance.    Before three o'clock the large shed was invaded by the spectators,  comprising Europeans and natives, Chinese and Japanese, men, women and  children, who precipitated themselves upon the narrow benches and into  the boxes opposite the stage.  The musicians took up a position inside,  and were vigorously performing on their gongs, tam-tams, flutes, bones,  tambourines, and immense drums.    The performance was much like all acrobatic displays; but it must be  confessed that the Japanese are the first equilibrists in the world.    One, with a fan and some bits of paper, performed the graceful trick of  the butterflies and the flowers; another traced in the air, with the  odorous smoke of his pipe, a series of blue words, which composed a  compliment to the audience; while a third juggled with some lighted  candles, which he extinguished successively as they passed his lips,  and relit again without interrupting for an instant his juggling.  Another reproduced the most singular combinations with a spinning-top;  in his hands the revolving tops seemed to be animated with a life of  their own in their interminable whirling; they ran over pipe-stems, the  edges of sabres, wires and even hairs stretched across the stage; they  turned around on the edges of large glasses, crossed bamboo ladders,  dispersed into all the corners, and produced strange musical effects by  the combination of their various pitches of tone.  The jugglers tossed  them in the air, threw them like shuttlecocks with wooden battledores, 
