  The news quickly spread through the train, which contained about one  hundred passengers, thirty of whom, at most, attracted by the notice,  ensconced themselves in car No. 117.  Passepartout took one of the  front seats.  Neither Mr. Fogg nor Fix cared to attend.    At the appointed hour Elder William Hitch rose, and, in an irritated  voice, as if he had already been contradicted, said, "I tell you that  Joe Smith is a martyr, that his brother Hiram is a martyr, and that the  persecutions of the United States Government against the prophets will  also make a martyr of Brigham Young.  Who dares to say the contrary?"    No one ventured to gainsay the missionary, whose excited tone  contrasted curiously with his naturally calm visage.  No doubt his  anger arose from the hardships to which the Mormons were actually  subjected.  The government had just succeeded, with some difficulty, in  reducing these independent fanatics to its rule.  It had made itself  master of Utah, and subjected that territory to the laws of the Union,  after imprisoning Brigham Young on a charge of rebellion and polygamy.  The disciples of the prophet had since redoubled their efforts, and  resisted, by words at least, the authority of Congress.  Elder Hitch,  as is seen, was trying to make proselytes on the very railway trains.    Then, emphasising his words with his loud voice and frequent gestures,  he related the history of the Mormons from Biblical times: how that, in  Israel, a Mormon prophet of the tribe of Joseph published the annals of  the new religion, and bequeathed them to his son Mormon; how, many  centuries later, a translation of this precious book, which was written  in Egyptian, was made by Joseph Smith, junior, a Vermont farmer, who  revealed himself as a mystical prophet in 1825; and how, in short, the  celestial messenger appeared to him in an illuminated forest, and gave  him the annals of the Lord.    Several of the audience, not being much interested in the missionary's  narrative, here left the car; but Elder Hitch, continuing his lecture,  related how Smith, junior, with his father, two brothers, and a few 
