 After breakfast, Mr. Fogg, accompanied by Aouda, started for the  English consulate to have his passport visaed.  As he was going out, he  met Passepartout, who asked him if it would not be well, before taking  the train, to purchase some dozens of Enfield rifles and Colt's  revolvers.  He had been listening to stories of attacks upon the trains  by the Sioux and Pawnees.  Mr. Fogg thought it a useless precaution,  but told him to do as he thought best, and went on to the consulate.    He had not proceeded two hundred steps, however, when, "by the greatest  chance in the world," he met Fix.  The detective seemed wholly taken by  surprise.  What!  Had Mr. Fogg and himself crossed the Pacific  together, and not met on the steamer!  At least Fix felt honoured to  behold once more the gentleman to whom he owed so much, and, as his  business recalled him to Europe, he should be delighted to continue the  journey in such pleasant company.    Mr. Fogg replied that the honour would be his; and the detective--who  was determined not to lose sight of him--begged permission to accompany  them in their walk about San Francisco--a request which Mr. Fogg  readily granted.    They soon found themselves in Montgomery Street, where a great crowd  was collected; the side-walks, street, horsecar rails, the shop-doors,  the windows of the houses, and even the roofs, were full of people.  Men were going about carrying large posters, and flags and streamers  were floating in the wind; while loud cries were heard on every hand.    "Hurrah for Camerfield!"    "Hurrah for Mandiboy!"    It was a political meeting; at least so Fix conjectured, who said to  Mr. Fogg, "Perhaps we had better not mingle with the crowd.  There may  be danger in it."    "Yes," returned Mr. Fogg; "and blows, even if they are political are  still blows."    Fix smiled at this remark; and, in order to be able to see without  being jostled about, the party took up a position on the top of a  flight of steps situated at the upper end of Montgomery Street. 
