 stairs.  The hours were long for him. He listened at his master's door,  and looked through the keyhole, as if he had a perfect right so to do,  and as if he feared that something terrible might happen at any moment.  Sometimes he thought of Fix, but no longer in anger.  Fix, like all the  world, had been mistaken in Phileas Fogg, and had only done his duty in  tracking and arresting him; while he, Passepartout. . . .  This thought  haunted him, and he never ceased cursing his miserable folly.    Finding himself too wretched to remain alone, he knocked at Aouda's  door, went into her room, seated himself, without speaking, in a  corner, and looked ruefully at the young woman. Aouda was still pensive.    About half-past seven in the evening Mr. Fogg sent to know if Aouda  would receive him, and in a few moments he found himself alone with her.    Phileas Fogg took a chair, and sat down near the fireplace, opposite  Aouda.  No emotion was visible on his face.  Fogg returned was exactly  the Fogg who had gone away; there was the same calm, the same  impassibility.    He sat several minutes without speaking; then, bending his eyes on  Aouda, "Madam," said he, "will you pardon me for bringing you to  England?"    "I, Mr. Fogg!" replied Aouda, checking the pulsations of her heart.    "Please let me finish," returned Mr. Fogg.  "When I decided to bring  you far away from the country which was so unsafe for you, I was rich,  and counted on putting a portion of my fortune at your disposal; then  your existence would have been free and happy.  But now I am ruined."    "I know it, Mr. Fogg," replied Aouda; "and I ask you in my turn, will  you forgive me for having followed you, and--who knows?--for having,  perhaps, delayed you, and thus contributed to your ruin?"    "Madam, you could not remain in India, and your safety could only be  assured by bringing you to such a distance that your persecutors could  not take you."    "So, Mr. Fogg," resumed Aouda, "not content with rescuing me from a 
