cylinder. By this excess of heat it obtains a larger distention, and  inflates the balloon more. The latter, then, ascends in proportion as I  heat the hydrogen.    “The descent, of course, is effected by lowering the heat of the  cylinder, and letting the temperature abate. The ascent would  be, usually, more rapid than the descent; but that is a fortunate  circumstance, since it is of no importance to me to descend rapidly,  while, on the other hand, it is by a very rapid ascent that I avoid  obstacles. The real danger lurks below, and not above.    “Besides, as I have said, I have a certain quantity of ballast, which  will enable me to ascend more rapidly still, when necessary. My valve,  at the top of the balloon, is nothing more nor less than a safety-valve.  The balloon always retains the same quantity of hydrogen, and the  variations of temperature that I produce in the midst of this shut-up  gas are, of themselves, sufficient to provide for all these ascending  and descending movements.    “Now, gentlemen, as a practical detail, let me add this:    “The combustion of the hydrogen and of the oxygen at the point of the  cylinder produces solely the vapor or steam of water. I have, therefore,  provided the lower part of the cylindrical iron box with a scape-pipe,  with a valve operating by means of a pressure of two atmospheres;  consequently, so soon as this amount of pressure is attained, the steam  escapes of itself.    “Here are the exact figures: 25 gallons of water, separated into its  constituent elements, yield 200 pounds of oxygen and 25 pounds of  hydrogen. This represents, at atmospheric tension, 1,800 cubic feet of  the former and 3,780 cubic feet of the latter, or 5,670 cubic feet,  in all, of the mixture. Hence, the stopcock of my cylinder, when fully  open, expends 27 cubic feet per hour, with a flame at least six times  as strong as that of the large lamps used for lighting streets. On an  average, then, and in order to keep myself at a very moderate elevation,  I should not burn more than nine cubic feet per hour, so that my 
