 “Well, then,” suggested Dick, “would it not be advisable to alight?”    “On the contrary, Dick, I’d rather go up, only that I am afraid of being  carried out of my course by these counter-currents contending in the  atmosphere.”    “Have you any idea, then, of abandoning the route that we have followed  since we left the coast?”    “If I can manage to do so,” replied the doctor, “I will turn more  directly northward, by from seven to eight degrees; I shall then  endeavor to ascend toward the presumed latitudes of the sources of the  Nile; perhaps we may discover some traces of Captain Speke’s expedition  or of M. de Heuglin’s caravan. Unless I am mistaken, we are at  thirty-two degrees forty minutes east longitude, and I should like to  ascend directly north of the equator.”    “Look there!” exclaimed Kennedy, suddenly, “see those hippopotami  sliding out of the pools--those masses of blood-colored flesh--and those  crocodiles snuffing the air aloud!”    “They’re choking!” ejaculated Joe. “Ah! what a fine way to travel this  is; and how one can snap his fingers at all that vermin!--Doctor! Mr.  Kennedy! see those packs of wild animals hurrying along close together.  There are fully two hundred. Those are wolves.”    “No! Joe, not wolves, but wild dogs; a famous breed that does not  hesitate to attack the lion himself. They are the worst customers a  traveller could meet, for they would instantly tear him to pieces.”    “Well, it isn’t Joe that’ll undertake to muzzle them!” responded that  amiable youth. “After all, though, if that’s the nature of the beast, we  mustn’t be too hard on them for it!”    Silence gradually settled down under the influence of the impending  storm: the thickened air actually seemed no longer adapted to the  transmission of sound; the atmosphere appeared MUFFLED, and, like a  room hung with tapestry, lost all its sonorous reverberation. The  “rover bird” so-called, the coroneted crane, the red and blue jays,  the mocking-bird, the flycatcher, disappeared among the foliage of the  immense trees, and all nature revealed symptoms of some approaching  catastrophe.    At nine o’clock the Victoria hung motionless over Msene, an extensive 
