   “The labors of these hardy pioneers of science are now about to be  knit together by the daring project of Dr. Samuel Ferguson, whose  fine explorations our readers have frequently had the opportunity of  appreciating.    “This intrepid discoverer proposes to traverse all Africa from east to  west IN A BALLOON. If we are well informed, the point of departure  for this surprising journey is to be the island of Zanzibar, upon  the eastern coast. As for the point of arrival, it is reserved for  Providence alone to designate.    “The proposal for this scientific undertaking was officially made,  yesterday, at the rooms of the Royal Geographical Society, and the sum  of twenty-five hundred pounds was voted to defray the expenses of the  enterprise.    “We shall keep our readers informed as to the progress of this  enterprise, which has no precedent in the annals of exploration.”    As may be supposed, the foregoing article had an enormous echo among  scientific people. At first, it stirred up a storm of incredulity; Dr.  Ferguson passed for a purely chimerical personage of the Barnum stamp,  who, after having gone through the United States, proposed to “do” the  British Isles.    A humorous reply appeared in the February number of the Bulletins de la  Societe Geographique of Geneva, which very wittily showed up the Royal  Society of London and their phenomenal sturgeon.    But Herr Petermann, in his Mittheilungen, published at Gotha, reduced  the Geneva journal to the most absolute silence. Herr Petermann knew  Dr. Ferguson personally, and guaranteed the intrepidity of his dauntless  friend.    Besides, all manner of doubt was quickly put out of the question:  preparations for the trip were set on foot at London; the factories of  Lyons received a heavy order for the silk required for the body of the  balloon; and, finally, the British Government placed the transport-ship  Resolute, Captain Bennett, at the disposal of the expedition.    At once, upon word of all this, a thousand encouragements were offered,  and felicitations came pouring in from all quarters. The details of the  undertaking were published in full in the bulletins of the Geographical 
