region in sight. His gaze wandered over details that might have been  thus described:    “Beneath him extended a country generally destitute of cultivation; only  here and there some ravines seemed under tillage; the surface, dotted  with peaks of medium height, grew flat as it approached the lake;  barley-fields took the place of rice-plantations, and there, too, could  be seen growing the species of plantain from which the wine of the  country is drawn, and mwani, the wild plant which supplies a substitute  for coffee. A collection of some fifty or more circular huts, covered  with a flowering thatch, constituted the capital of the Karagwah  country.”    He could easily distinguish the astonished countenances of a rather  fine-looking race of natives of yellowish-brown complexion. Women  of incredible corpulence were dawdling about through the cultivated  grounds, and the doctor greatly surprised his companions by informing  them that this rotundity, which is highly esteemed in that region, was  obtained by an obligatory diet of curdled milk.    At noon, the Victoria was in one degree forty-five minutes south  latitude, and at one o’clock the wind was driving her directly toward  the lake.    This sheet of water was christened Uyanza Victoria, or Victoria Lake, by  Captain Speke. At the place now mentioned it might measure about ninety  miles in breadth, and at its southern extremity the captain found a  group of islets, which he named the Archipelago of Bengal. He pushed his  survey as far as Muanza, on the eastern coast, where he was received  by the sultan. He made a triangulation of this part of the lake, but  he could not procure a boat, either to cross it or to visit the great  island of Ukereoue which is very populous, is governed by three sultans,  and appears to be only a promontory at low tide.    The balloon approached the lake more to the northward, to the doctor’s  great regret, for it had been his wish to determine its lower outlines.  Its shores seemed to be thickly set with brambles and thorny plants,  growing together in wild confusion, and were literally hidden,  sometimes, from the gaze, by myriads of mosquitoes of a light-brown hue. 
