 The wind had become violent and irregular; the balloon was running  the gantlet through the air. Tossed at one moment toward the north, at  another toward the south, it could not find one steady current.    “We are moving very swiftly without advancing much,” said Kennedy,  remarking the frequent oscillations of the needle of the compass.    “The balloon is rushing at the rate of at least thirty miles an hour.  Lean over, and see how the country is gliding away beneath us!” said the  doctor.    “See! that forest looks as though it were precipitating itself upon us!”    “The forest has become a clearing!” added the other.    “And the clearing a village!” continued Joe, a moment or two later.  “Look at the faces of those astonished darkys!”    “Oh! it’s natural enough that they should be astonished,” said the  doctor. “The French peasants, when they first saw a balloon, fired  at it, thinking that it was an aerial monster. A Soudan negro may be  excused, then, for opening his eyes VERY wide!”    “Faith!” said Joe, as the Victoria skimmed closely along the ground,  at scarcely the elevation of one hundred feet, and immediately over a  village, “I’ll throw them an empty bottle, with your leave, doctor, and  if it reaches them safe and sound, they’ll worship it; if it breaks,  they’ll make talismans of the pieces.”    So saying, he flung out a bottle, which, of course, was broken into a  thousand fragments, while the negroes scampered into their round huts,  uttering shrill cries.    A little farther on, Kennedy called out: “Look at that strange tree! The  upper part is of one kind and the lower part of another!”    “Well!” said Joe, “here’s a country where the trees grow on top of each  other.”    “It’s simply the trunk of a fig-tree,” replied the doctor, “on which  there is a little vegetating earth. Some fine day, the wind left the  seed of a palm on it, and the seed has taken root and grown as though it  were on the plain ground.”    “A fine new style of gardening,” said Joe, “and I’ll import the idea 
