   On the morrow, the 13th of May, our travellers, for the first time,  reconnoitred the part of the coast on which they had landed. It was a  sort of island of solid ground in the midst of an immense marsh. Around  this fragment of terra firma grew reeds as lofty as trees are in Europe,  and stretching away out of sight.    These impenetrable swamps gave security to the position of the balloon.  It was necessary to watch only the borders of the lake. The vast stretch  of water broadened away from the spot, especially toward the east, and  nothing could be seen on the horizon, neither mainland nor islands.    The two friends had not yet ventured to speak of their recent companion.  Kennedy first imparted his conjectures to the doctor.    “Perhaps Joe is not lost after all,” he said. “He was a skilful lad,  and had few equals as a swimmer. He would find no difficulty in swimming  across the Firth of Forth at Edinburgh. We shall see him again--but how  and where I know not. Let us omit nothing on our part to give him the  chance of rejoining us.”    “May God grant it as you say, Dick!” replied the doctor, with much  emotion. “We shall do everything in the world to find our lost friend  again. Let us, in the first place, see where we are. But, above all  things, let us rid the Victoria of this outside covering, which is of  no further use. That will relieve us of six hundred and fifty pounds, a  weight not to be despised--and the end is worth the trouble!”    The doctor and Kennedy went to work at once, but they encountered great  difficulty. They had to tear the strong silk away piece by piece, and  then cut it in narrow strips so as to extricate it from the meshes of  the network. The tear made by the beaks of the condors was found to be  several feet in length.    This operation took at least four hours, but at length the inner balloon  once completely extricated did not appear to have suffered in the least  degree. The Victoria was thus diminished in size by one fifth, and this 
