  “That is Kernak. The last puffs of the breeze are wafting us to it, and,  if we choose, we can take an exact plan of the place.”    “Shall we not go nearer to it?” asked Kennedy.    “Nothing easier, Dick! We are right over it. Allow me to turn the  stopcock of the cylinder, and we’ll not be long in descending.”    Half an hour later the balloon hung motionless about two hundred feet  from the ground.    “Here we are!” said the doctor, “nearer to Kernak than a man would be to  London, if he were perched in the cupola of St. Paul’s. So we can take a  survey at our ease.”    “What is that tick-tacking sound that we hear on all sides?”    Joe looked attentively, and at length discovered that the noise they  heard was produced by a number of weavers beating cloth stretched in the  open air, on large trunks of trees.    The capital of Loggoum could then be seen in its entire extent, like  an unrolled chart. It is really a city with straight rows of houses  and quite wide streets. In the midst of a large open space there was a  slave-market, attended by a great crowd of customers, for the Mandara  women, who have extremely small hands and feet, are in excellent  request, and can be sold at lucrative rates.    At the sight of the Victoria, the scene so often produced occurred  again. At first there were outcries, and then followed general  stupefaction; business was abandoned; work was flung aside, and  all noise ceased. The aeronauts remained as they were, completely  motionless, and lost not a detail of the populous city. They even went  down to within sixty feet of the ground.    Hereupon the Governor of Loggoum came out from his residence, displaying  his green standard, and accompanied by his musicians, who blew on hoarse  buffalo-horns, as though they would split their cheeks or any thing  else, excepting their own lungs. The crowd at once gathered around him.  In the mean while Dr. Ferguson tried to make himself heard, but in vain.    This population looked like proud and intelligent people, with their 
