circled round and round the sacred hut with contortions and grimaces.    Joe could catch the sound of this deafening orchestra, through the  mud and reeds of which his cabin was built; and perhaps under other  circumstances he might have been amused by these strange ceremonies;  but his mind was soon disturbed by quite different and less agreeable  reflections. Even looking at the bright side of things, he found it both  stupid and sad to be left alone in the midst of this savage country  and among these wild tribes. Few travellers who had penetrated to these  regions had ever again seen their native land. Moreover, could he trust  to the worship of which he saw himself the object? He had good reason to  believe in the vanity of human greatness; and he asked himself whether,  in this country, adoration did not sometimes go to the length of eating  the object adored!    But, notwithstanding this rather perplexing prospect, after some hours  of meditation, fatigue got the better of his gloomy thoughts, and Joe  fell into a profound slumber, which would have lasted no doubt until  sunrise, had not a very unexpected sensation of dampness awakened the  sleeper. Ere long this dampness became water, and that water gained so  rapidly that it had soon mounted to Joe’s waist.    “What can this be?” said he; “a flood! a water-spout! or a new torture  invented by these blacks? Faith, though, I’m not going to wait here till  it’s up to my neck!”    And, so saying, he burst through the frail wall with a jog of his  powerful shoulder, and found himself--where?--in the open lake! Island  there was none. It had sunk during the night. In its place, the watery  immensity of Lake Tchad!    “A poor country for the land-owners!” said Joe, once more vigorously  resorting to his skill in the art of natation.    One of those phenomena, which are by no means unusual on Lake Tchad, had  liberated our brave Joe. More than one island, that previously seemed  to have the solidity of rock, has been submerged in this way; and the  people living along the shores of the mainland have had to pick up the 
