of Grasshoppers.--A View of Jenne.--A View of Sego.--Change of the  Wind.--Joe’s Regrets.    The flow of the river was, at that point, divided by large islands into  narrow branches, with a very rapid current. Upon one among them stood  some shepherds’ huts, but it had become impossible to take an exact  observation of them, because the speed of the balloon was constantly  increasing. Unfortunately, it turned still more toward the south, and in  a few moments crossed Lake Debo.    Dr. Ferguson, forcing the dilation of his aerial craft to the utmost,  sought for other currents of air at different heights, but in vain; and  he soon gave up the attempt, which was only augmenting the waste of gas  by pressing it against the well-worn tissue of the balloon.    He made no remark, but he began to feel very anxious. This persistence  of the wind to head him off toward the southern part of Africa was  defeating his calculations, and he no longer knew upon whom or upon what  to depend. Should he not reach the English or French territories, what  was to become of him in the midst of the barbarous tribes that infest  the coasts of Guinea? How should he there get to a ship to take him back  to England? And the actual direction of the wind was driving him along  to the kingdom of Dahomey, among the most savage races, and into the  power of a ruler who was in the habit of sacrificing thousands of human  victims at his public orgies. There he would be lost!    On the other hand, the balloon was visibly wearing out, and the doctor  felt it failing him. However, as the weather was clearing up a little,  he hoped that the cessation of the rain would bring about a change in  the atmospheric currents.    It was therefore a disagreeable reminder of the actual situation when  Joe said aloud:    “There! the rain’s going to pour down harder than ever; and this time it  will be the deluge itself, if we’re to judge by yon cloud that’s coming  up!”    “What! another cloud?” asked Ferguson.    “Yes, and a famous one,” replied Kennedy. 
