Care.--A Life of Self-Denial.--Passing a Volcano.    Dr. Ferguson darted his powerful electric jet toward various points of  space, and caused it to rest on a spot from which shouts of terror were  heard. His companions fixed their gaze eagerly on the place.    The baobab, over which the balloon was hanging almost motionless, stood  in the centre of a clearing, where, between fields of Indian-corn and  sugar-cane, were seen some fifty low, conical huts, around which swarmed  a numerous tribe.    A hundred feet below the balloon stood a large post, or stake, and at  its foot lay a human being--a young man of thirty years or more, with  long black hair, half naked, wasted and wan, bleeding, covered with  wounds, his head bowed over upon his breast, as Christ’s was, when He  hung upon the cross.    The hair, cut shorter on the top of his skull, still indicated the place  of a half-effaced tonsure.    “A missionary! a priest!” exclaimed Joe.    “Poor, unfortunate man!” said Kennedy.    “We must save him, Dick!” responded the doctor; “we must save him!”    The crowd of blacks, when they saw the balloon over their heads, like  a huge comet with a train of dazzling light, were seized with a terror  that may be readily imagined. Upon hearing their cries, the prisoner  raised his head. His eyes gleamed with sudden hope, and, without too  thoroughly comprehending what was taking place, he stretched out his  hands to his unexpected deliverers.    “He is alive!” exclaimed Ferguson. “God be praised! The savages have got  a fine scare, and we shall save him! Are you ready, friends?”    “Ready, doctor, at the word.”    “Joe, shut off the cylinder!”    The doctor’s order was executed. An almost imperceptible breath of air  impelled the balloon directly over the prisoner, at the same time that  it gently lowered with the contraction of the gas. For about ten minutes  it remained floating in the midst of luminous waves, for Ferguson  continued to flash right down upon the throng his glowing sheaf of rays,  which, here and there, marked out swift and vivid sheets of light. 
