   “The savages don’t boggle much about it!” said Kennedy.    “Yes; but then they are savages, and accustomed to devouring raw meat;  it’s something that I’d find very disgusting, for my part.”    “It is disgusting enough,” said the doctor, “that’s a fact; and so  much so, indeed, that nobody believed the narratives of the earliest  travellers in Africa who brought back word that many tribes on that  continent subsisted upon raw meat, and people generally refused to  credit the statement. It was under such circumstances that a very  singular adventure befell James Bruce.”    “Tell it to us, doctor; we’ve time enough to hear it,” said Joe,  stretching himself voluptuously on the cool greensward.    “By all means.--James Bruce was a Scotchman, of Stirlingshire, who,  between 1768 and 1772, traversed all Abyssinia, as far as Lake Tyana, in  search of the sources of the Nile. He afterward returned to England, but  did not publish an account of his journeys until 1790. His statements  were received with extreme incredulity, and such may be the reception  accorded to our own. The manners and customs of the Abyssinians seemed  so different from those of the English, that no one would credit the  description of them. Among other details, Bruce had put forward the  assertion that the tribes of Eastern Africa fed upon raw flesh, and this  set everybody against him. He might say so as much as he pleased; there  was no one likely to go and see! One day, in a parlor at Edinburgh, a  Scotch gentleman took up the subject in his presence, as it had become  the topic of daily pleasantry, and, in reference to the eating of raw  flesh, said that the thing was neither possible nor true. Bruce made no  reply, but went out and returned a few minutes later with a raw steak,  seasoned with pepper and salt, in the African style.    “‘Sir,’ said he to the Scotchman, ‘in doubting my statements, you have  grossly affronted me; in believing the thing to be impossible, you have  been egregiously mistaken; and, in proof thereof, you will now eat this  beef-steak raw, or you will give me instant satisfaction!’ The Scotchman 
