   “Lie down, my friends, and get some rest,” said the doctor. “I’ll take  the first watch; at two o’clock I’ll waken Kennedy; at four, Kennedy  will waken Joe, and at six we’ll start; and may Heaven have us in its  keeping for this last day of the trip!”    Without waiting to be coaxed, the doctor’s two companions stretched  themselves at the bottom of the car and dropped into profound slumber on  the instant.    The night was calm. A few clouds broke against the last quarter of the  moon, whose uncertain rays scarcely pierced the darkness. Ferguson,  resting his elbows on the rim of the car, gazed attentively around him.  He watched with close attention the dark screen of foliage that spread  beneath him, hiding the ground from his view. The least noise aroused  his suspicions, and he questioned even the slightest rustling of the  leaves.    He was in that mood which solitude makes more keenly felt, and during  which vague terrors mount to the brain. At the close of such a journey,  after having surmounted so many obstacles, and at the moment of touching  the goal, one’s fears are more vivid, one’s emotions keener. The point  of arrival seems to fly farther from our gaze.    Moreover, the present situation had nothing very consolatory about it.  They were in the midst of a barbarous country, and dependent upon a  vehicle that might fail them at any moment. The doctor no longer counted  implicitly on his balloon; the time had gone by when he manoevred it  boldly because he felt sure of it.    Under the influence of these impressions, the doctor, from time to time,  thought that he heard vague sounds in the vast forests around him;  he even fancied that he saw a swift gleam of fire shining between the  trees. He looked sharply and turned his night-glass toward the spot; but  there was nothing to be seen, and the profoundest silence appeared to  return.    He had, no doubt, been under the dominion of a mere hallucination. He  continued to listen, but without hearing the slightest noise. When his  watch had expired, he woke Kennedy, and, enjoining upon him to observe 
