was all that it was necessary to know. But this is where he made his big  mistake.    Up at Lukati all sorts of things happened, as Commissioner Sanders  knows, to his cost. Once he visited the district and left it tranquil,  and for Carter, his deputy, whom he left behind, the natives built a  most beautiful hut, planting gardens about, all off their own bat.    One day, when Carter had just finished writing an enthusiastic report on  the industry of his people, and the whole-hearted way they were taking  up and supporting the new rgime, the chief of the village, whom Carter  had facetiously named O'Leary (his born name was indeed Olari), came to  him.    Carter at the moment was walking through the well-swept street of the  village with his hands in his coat pockets and his big white helmet  tipped on the back of his head because the sun was setting at his back.    "Father," said the Chief Olari, "I have brought these people to see  you."    He indicated with a wave of his hand six strange warriors carrying their  shields and spears, who looked at him dispassionately.    Carter nodded.    "They desire," said Olari, "to see the wonderful little black fetish  that my father carries in his pocket that they may tell their people of  its powers."    "Tell your people," said Carter good-humouredly, "that I have not got  the fetish with me--if they will come to my hut I will show them its  wonders."    Whereupon Olari lifted his spear and struck at Carter, and the six  warriors sprang forward together. Carter fought gamely, but he was  unarmed.    When Sanders heard the news of his subordinate's death he did not faint  or fall into a fit of insane cursing. He was sitting on his broad  verandah at headquarters when the dusty messenger came. He rose with  pursed lips and frowning eyes, fingering the letter--this came from  Tollemache, inspector of police at Bokari--and paced the verandah.    "Poor chap, poor chap!" was all that he said.    He sent no message to Olari; he made no preparations for a punitive 
