 In other words he accused them of overstepping the creed of Equality and  encroaching upon the borderland of political agitation.    "Lies!" said the elder of the two, without hesitation.    "Truth or lies," he said, "you go no more to Isisi."    "Would you have the heathen remain in darkness?" asked the man, in  reproach. "Is the light we kindle too bright, master?"    "No," said Sanders, "but a bit too warm."    So he committed the outrage of removing the Ethiopians from the scene of  their earnest labours, in consequence of which questions were asked in  Parliament.    Then the chief of the Akasava people--an old friend--took a hand in the  education of King Peter. Akasava adjoins that king's territory, and the  chief came to give hints in military affairs.    He came with drums a-beating, with presents of fish and bananas and  salt.    "You are a great king!" he said to the sleepy-eyed boy who sat on a  stool of state, regarding him with open-mouthed interest. "When you walk  the world shakes at your tread; the mighty river that goes flowing down  to the big water parts asunder at your word, the trees of the forest  shiver, and the beasts go slinking to cover when your mightiness goes  abroad."    "Oh, ko, ko!" giggled the king, pleasantly tickled.    "The white men fear you," continued the chief of the Akasava; "they  tremble and hide at your roar."    Sato-Koto, standing at the king's elbow, was a practical man.    "What seek ye, chief?" he asked, cutting short the compliments.    So the chief told him of a land peopled by cowards, rich with the  treasures of the earth, goats, and women.    "Why do you not take them yourself?" demanded the regent.    "Because I am a slave," said the chief; "the slave of Sandi, who would  beat me. But you, lord, are of the great; being king's headman, Sandi  would not beat you because of your greatness."    There followed a palaver, which lasted two days.    "I shall have to do something with Peter," wrote Sanders despairingly to 
