three canoes, and Sanders, who, from where he sat, commanded an  uninterrupted view of the river, knew there was trouble--and guessed  what that trouble was.    "Justice!" demanded the chief, his voice trembling with the rage and  fear he had nursed, "justice against the Old One, the stealer of girls,  the destroyer of cities--may death go to him. Iwa!----"    The very day Sanders had left, the messenger of the great king had come,  and with him a hundred warriors, demanding the dancing girl. True to his  pre-arranged scheme, the chief began the inevitable bargaining over  terms. The presents offered were too small. The girl was worth a hundred  thousand rods--nay, a thousand bags of salt.    "You were mad," said Sanders calmly; "no woman is worth a thousand bags  of salt."    "Well, that might be," admitted the outraged father; "yet it would be  folly to begin by naming a price too low. The bargaining went on  through the night and all the next day, and in the end the envoy of the  great king grew impatient.    "Let the woman be sent for," he said, and obedient to the summons came  Daihili, demure enough, yet with covert glances of encouragement to the  unemotional ambassador, and with subtle exhibitions of her charms.    "Woman," said the messenger, "the greatest of kings desires you, will  you come?"    "Lord," said the girl, "I wish for nothing better."    With that, the hundred armed warriors in attendance at the palaver  closed round the girl.    "And so," said Sanders, "you got nothing?"    "Lord, it is as you say," moaned the old chief.    "It is evident," said Sanders, "that an injustice has been done; for no  man may take a woman unless he pay. I think," he added, with a flash of  that mordant humour which occasionally illuminated his judgments, "that  the man pays twice, once to the father, and all his life to his  wife--but that is as may be."    Six weeks later, after consultation, Sanders sent a messenger to the  great king, demanding the price of the woman.    What happened to the messenger I would rather not describe. That he was 
