robe of panther skin thrown about his shoulders, he was naked.    There was a palaver house at the end of the village, a thatched little  wattle hut perched on a tiny hill, and the Lord Elebi gathered there his  captains and the chief of the village. He made a speech.    "_Cala, cala_," he began--and it means "long ago," and is a famous  opening to speeches--"before the white man came, and when the Arabi came  down from the northern countries to steal women and ivory, the people of  the Secret River buried their 'points' in a Place of Devils. Their women  they could not bury, so they lost them. Now all the people of the Secret  River are dead. The Arabi killed some, Bula Matadi killed others, but  the sickness killed most of all. Where their villages were the high  grass has grown, and in their gardens only the weaver bird speaks. Yet I  know of this place, for there came to me a vision and a voice that  said----"    The rest of the speech from the European standpoint was pure blasphemy,  because Elebi had had the training of a lay preacher, and had an easy  delivery.    When he had finished, the chief of the village of Tambangu spoke. It was  a serious discourse on devils. There was no doubt at all that in the  forest where the _cach_ was there was a veritable stronghold of  devildom. Some had bad faces and were as tall as the gum-trees--taller,  for they used whole trees for clubs; some were small, so small that they  travelled on the wings of bees, but all were very potent, very terrible,  and most effective guardians of buried treasure. Their greatest  accomplishment lay in leading astray the traveller: men went into the  forest in search of game or copal or rubber, and never came back,  because there were a thousand ways in and no way out.    Elebi listened gravely.    "Devils of course there are," he said, "including the Devil, the Old  One, who is the enemy of God. I have had much to do with the casting out  of devils--in my holy capacity as a servant of the Word. Of the lesser 
