 He listened, then slipped out of bed, pulling on his mosquito boots.  Into the darkness of the night he stepped, and found N'Kema, the  engineer, waiting.    "You heard, master?" said the native.    "I heard," said Sanders, with a puzzled face, "yet we are nowhere near a  village."    He listened.    From the night came a hundred whispering noises, but above all these,  unmistakable, the faint clatter of an answering drum. The white man  frowned in his perplexity. "No village is nearer than the Bongindanga,"  he muttered, "not even a fishing village; the woods are deserted----"    The native held up a warning finger, and bent his head, listening. He  was reading the message that the drum sent. Sanders waited; he knew the  wonderful fact of this native telegraph, how it sent news through the  trackless wilds. He could not understand it, no European could; but he  had respect for its mystery.    "A white man is here," read the native; "he has the sickness."    "A white man!"    In the darkness Sanders' eyebrows rose incredulously.    "He is a foolish one," N'Kema read; "he sits in the Forest of Happy  Thoughts, and will not move."    Sanders clicked his lips impatiently. "No white man would sit in the  Forest of Happy Thoughts," he said, half to himself, "unless he were  mad."    But the distant drum monotonously repeated the outrageous news. Here,  indeed, in the heart of the loveliest glade in all Africa, encamped in  the very centre of the Green Path of Death, was a white man, a sick  white man--in the Forest of Happy Thoughts--a sick white man.    So the drum went on and on, till Sanders, rousing his own _lo-koli_ man,  sent an answer crashing along the river, and began to dress hurriedly.    In the forest lay a very sick man. He had chosen the site for the camp  himself. It was in a clearing, near a little creek that wound between  high elephant-grass to the river. Mainward chose it, just before the  sickness came, because it was pretty. This was altogether an inadequate 
