 alarums--all these were in the days' work--but Sanders worried about the  Lulungo, because of their general badness, and because of all his  people, Isisi, Ikeli, Akasava, and Ochori, who hated the Lulungo folk  with a deep-rooted hatred. In his own heart, Sanders knew that war could  only be postponed, and so advised London, receiving in reply, from an  agitated Under-Secretary in Whitehall, the urgent request that the  postponement should cover and extend beyond the conclusion of "the  present financial year--for heaven's sake!"    They had a proverb up in the Lulungo district--three days' march beyond  the Akasava--and it is to this effect: "When a man hath a secret enemy  and cannot find him, pull down his own hut and search among the dbris."  This is a cumbersome translation. There is another proverb which says,  "Because of the enemy who lives in the shadow of your hut"; also another  which says, "If you cannot find your enemy, kill your dearest friend."  The tendency of all these proverbs is to show that the Lulungo people  took a gloomy view of life, and were naturally suspicious.    Sanders had a cook of the Lulungo tribe, down at M'piti--which model  city served as Mr. Commissioner's headquarters. He was a wanderer, and  by way of being a cosmopolitan, having travelled as far north as Dacca,  and as far south as Banana--and presumably up the Congo to Matadi. When  he came to M'piti, applying for work, he was asked his name and replied  in the "English" of the Coast:    "Master, dey one call me Sixpence all'time. I make 'um cook fine; you  look 'um for better cook, you no find 'um--savvy."    "And what," said Sanders, in the Lulungo dialect, "what mongrel talk do  you call this?"    "Master, it is English," said the abashed native.    "It is monkey talk," said Sanders, cruelly; "the talk of krooboys and  half-bred sailors who have no language. What are you called by your  people?"    "Lataki, master," said the cook.    "So shall you be called," said Sanders. "Further, you shall speak no  language but your own, and your pay will be ten shillings a month." 
