thought he detected a gruffer and more robust note in the tone.    "Mail-boat's just in, sir," Bones went on with unusual fierceness.  "You're in time to meet His Excellency. Stores all laid out, books in  trim, parade ground and quarters whitewashed as per your jolly old  orders, sir."    He saluted again, his eyes bulging, his face a veritable mask of  ferocity, and, turning on his heel, he led the way to the beach.    "Here, hold hard!" said Hamilton; "what the dickens is the matter with  you?"    "Seen the error of my ways, sir," growled Bones, again saluting  punctiliously. "I've been an ass, sir--too lenient--given you a lot of  trouble--shan't occur again."    There was not time to ask any further questions.    The two men had to run to reach the landing place in time, for the surf  boats were at that moment rolling to the yellow beach.    Sir Robert Sanleigh, in spotless white, was carried ashore, and his  staff followed.    "Ah, Hamilton," said the great Bob, "everything all right?"    "Yes, your Excellency," said Hamilton, "there have been one or two  serious killing palavers on which I will report."    Sir Robert nodded.    "You were bound to have a little trouble as soon as Sanders went," he  said.    He was a methodical man and had little time for the work at hand, for  the mail-boat was waiting to carry him to another station. Books,  quarters, and stores were in apple-pie order, and inwardly Hamilton  raised his voice in praise of the young man, who strode silently and  fiercely by his side, his face still distorted with a new-found  fierceness.    "The Houssas are all right, I suppose?" asked Sir Robert. "Discipline  good--no crime?"    "The discipline is excellent, sir," replied Hamilton, heartily, "and we  haven't had any serious crime for years."    Sir Robert Sanleigh fixed his _pince-nez_ upon his nose and looked round  the parade ground. A dozen Houssas in two ranks stood at attention in  the centre.    "Where are the rest of your men?" asked the Administrator. 
