"Well, you're an ass!" said Hamilton, who could think of nothing better  to say.    "Yes, sir," said Bones; "I think you're repeating yourself, sir. I seem  to have heard a similar observation before."    "You've made Bosambo and the whole of the Ochori as sick as monkeys, and  you've made me look a fool."    "Hardly my responsibility, sir," said Bones, gently.    "I hardly know what to do with you," said Hamilton, drawing his pipe  from his pocket and slowly charging it. "Naturally, Bones, I can never  let you loose again on the country." He lit his pipe and puffed  thoughtfully. "And of course----"    "Pardon me, sir," said Bones, still uncomfortably erect, "this is  intended to be a sort of official inquiry an' all that sort of thing,  isn't it?"    "It is," said Hamilton.    "Well, sir," said Bones, "may I ask you not to smoke? When a chap's  honour an' reputation an' all that sort of thing is being weighed in the  balance, sir, believe me, smokin' isn't decent--it isn't really, sir."    Hamilton looked round for something to throw at his critic and found a  tolerably heavy book, but Bones dodged and fielded it dexterously. "And  if you must chuck things at me, sir," he added, as he examined the title  on the back of the missile, "will you avoid as far as possible usin' the  sacred volumes of the Army List? It hurts me to tell you this, sir, but  I've been well brought up."    "What's the time?" asked Hamilton, and his second-in-command examined  his watch.    "Ten to tiffin," he said. "Good Lord, we've been gassin' an hour. Any  news from Sanders?"    "He's in town--that's all I know--but don't change the serious subject,  Bones. Everybody is awfully disgusted with you--Sanders would have at  least brought him to trial."    "I couldn't do it, sir," said Bones, firmly. "Poor old bird! He looked  such an ass, an' moreover reminded me so powerfully of an aunt of mine  that I simply couldn't do it."    No doubt but that Lieut. Francis Augustus Tibbetts of the Houssas, with 
