  With this course N'gori must feign agreement. He watched the departing  army--paddlers sitting on swathes of filched spears. Once Bosambo was  out of sight, N'gori collected all the convertible property of his city  and sent it in ten canoes to the edge of the N'gombi country, for  N'gombi folk are wonderful makers of spears and have a saleable stock  hidden against emergency.    For the space of a month there was enacted a comedy of which Hamilton  was ignorant. Three days after Bosambo had returned in triumph to his  city, there came a frantic call for succour--a rolling, terrified  rat-a-plan of sound which the _lokali_ man of the Ochori village read.    "Lord," said he, waking Bosambo in the dead of night, "there has come  down a signal from the Akasava, who are pressed by their enemies and  have no spears."    Bosambo was in the dark street instanter, his booming war-drum calling  urgently. Twenty canoes filled with fighting men, paddling desperately  with the stream, raced to the aid of the defenceless Akasava.    At dawn, on the beach of the city, N'gori met his ally. "I thank all my  little gods you have come, my lord," said he, humbly; "for in the night  one of my young men saw an Isisi army coming against us."    "Where is the army?" demanded a weary Bosambo.    "Lord, it has not come," said N'gori, glibly; "for hearing of your  lordship and your swift canoes, I think it had run away."    Bosambo's force paddled back to the Ochori city the next day. Two nights  after, the call was repeated--this time with greater detail. An N'gombi  force of countless spears had seized the village of Doozani and was  threatening the capital.    Again Bosambo carried his spears to a killing, and again was met by an  apologetic N'gori.    "Lord, it was a lie which a sick maiden spread," he explained, "and my  stomach is filled with sorrow that I should have brought the mighty  Bosambo from his wife's bed on such a night." For the dark hours had  been filled with rain and tempest, and Bosambo had nearly lost one canoe 
