"My children," said Hamilton, whiffling his pliant cane, "soon there  will come here a member of government who knows nothing. Also he may  stray into the forest and lose himself as the bride-groom's cow strays  from the field of his father-in-law, not knowing his new surroundings.  Now it is to you we look for his safety--I and the government. Also  Sandi, our lord. You shall not let this stranger out of your sight, nor  shall you allow approach him any such evil men as the N'gombi iron  sellers or the fishing men of N'gar or makers of wooden charms, for the  government has said this man must not be robbed, but must be treated  well, and you of the guard shall all salute him, also, when the time  arrives."    Hamilton meant no disrespect in his graphic illustration. He was dealing  with a simple people who required vivid word-pictures to convince them.  And certainly they found nothing undignified in the right honourable  gentleman when he arrived next morning.    He was above the medium height, somewhat stout, very neat and orderly,  and he twirled a waxed moustache, turning grey. He had heavy and bilious  eyes, and a certain pompousness of manner distinguished him. Also an  effervescent geniality which found expression in shaking hands with  anybody who happened to be handy, in mechanically agreeing with all  views that were put before him and immediately afterwards contradicting  them; in a painful desire to be regarded as popular. In fact, in all the  things which got immediately upon Sanders' nerves, this man was a sealed  pattern of a bore.    He wanted to know things, but the things he wanted to know were of no  importance, and the information he extracted could not be of any  assistance to him. His mind was largely occupied in such vital problems  as what happened to the brooms which the Houssas used to keep their  quarters clean when they were worn out, and what would be the effect of  an increased ration of lime juice upon the morals and discipline of the  troops under Hamilton's command. Had he been less of a trial Sanders  would not have allowed him to go into the interior without a stronger 
