star of the Belgian Congo, ready to belch fire at them, if they so much  as showed their flat noses.    It would have needed a Napoleon to have combined all the conflicting  forces, to have lulled all the mutual suspicions, and to have moulded  these incompatible particles into a whole; but, Bizaro, like many  another vain and ambitious man, had sought by means of a great palaver  to produce a feeling of security sufficiently soothing to the nerves and  susceptibilities of all elements, to create something like a nationality  of these scattered remnants of the nations.    And though he failed, he did succeed in bringing together four or five  of the camps, and it was this news carried to the French Governor by  spies, transmitted to Downing Street, and flashed back again to the  Coast, which set Hamilton and his Houssas moving; which brought a  regiment of the King's African Rifles to the Coast ready to reinforce  the earlier expedition, and which (more to the point) had put Bosambo's  war drums rumbling from one end of the Ochori to the other.    Bizaro, mustering his force, came gaily through the sun-splashed aisles  of the forest, his face streaked hideously with camwood, his big  elephant spear twirled between his fingers, and behind him straggled his  cosmopolitan force.    There were men from the Congo and the French Congo; men from German  lands; from Angola; wanderers from far-off Barotseland, who had drifted  on to the Congo by the swift and yellow Kasai. There were hunters from  the forests of far-off Bongindanga where the _okapi_ roams. For each  man's presence in that force there was good and sinister reason, for  these were no mere tax-evaders, poor, starved wretches fleeing from the  rule which _Bula Matadi_[4] imposed. There was a blood price on almost  every head, and in a dozen prisons at Boma, at Brazaville, and  Equatorville, and as far south as St. Paul de Loduda, there were  leg-irons which had at some time or other fitted their scarred ankles.    [Footnote 4: The stone breaker, the native name for the Congo  Government.]    Now there are four distinct physical features which mark the border line 
