lightnings."    He had been seen in many places in the Ochori, in the N'gombi city, in  the villages of the Akasava, but mainly his hunting ground was the  narrow strip of territory which is called Lombobo.    B'limi Saka, the chief of the land, himself a believer in devils, was  especially perturbed lest the Silent Walker should be a spy of  Government, for he had been guilty of practices which were particularly  obnoxious to the white men who were so swift to punish.    "Yet," said he to his daughter and (to the disgust of his people, who  despised women) his chief councillor, "none know my heart save you,  Lamalana."    Lamalana, with her man shoulders and her flat face, peered at her  grizzled father sideways.    "Devils hear hearts," she said huskily, "and when they talk of killings  and sacrifices are not all devils pleased? Now I tell you this, my  father, that I wait for sacrifices which you swore by death you would  show me."    B'limi Saka looked round fearfully. Though the ferocity of this chief  was afterwards revealed, though secret places in the forest held his  horrible secret killing-houses, yet he was a timid man with a certain  affection of his eyes which made him dependent upon the childless widow  who had been his strength for two years.    The Lombobo were the cruellest of Sanders' people; their chiefs the most  treacherous. Neither akin to the N'gombi, the Isisi, the Akasava nor the  Ochori, they took on the worst attributes of each race.    Seldom in open warfare did they challenge the Administration, but there  was a long tale of slain and mutilated enemies who floated face  downwards in the stream; of disappearance of faithful servants of  Government, and of acts of cannibalism which went unidentified and  unpunished.    For though all the tribes, save the Ochori, had been cannibals, yet by  fire and rope, tempered with wisdom, had the Administration brought  about a newer era to the upper river.    But reformation came not to the Lombobo. A word from Sanders, a  carelessly expressed view, and the Lombobo people would have been swept 
