"Then," said Sanders, with a twinkle in his eyes, "you must pretend that  you know."    "What is there to do to-day?" asked Hamilton, rolling his serviette.    He addressed himself to Lieutenant Tibbetts, who, to Sanders's intense  annoyance, invariably made elaborate notes of all the Commissioner said.    "Nothin' until this afternoon, sir," said Bones, closing his notebook  briskly, "then we're doin' a little deep-sea fishin'."    The girl made a grimace.    "We didn't catch anything yesterday, Bones," she objected.    "We used the wrong kind of worm," said Bones confidently. "I've found a  new worm nest in the plantation. Jolly little fellers they are, too."    "What are we doing to-day, Bones?" repeated Hamilton ominously.    Bones puckered his brows.    "Deep-sea fishin', dear old officer and comrade," he repeated, "an'  after dinner a little game of tiddly-winks--Bones _v._ jolly old  Hamilton's sister, for the championship of the River an' the Sanders  Cup."    Hamilton breathed deeply, but was patient.    "Your King and your country," he said, "pay you seven and eightpence per  diem----"    "Oh," said Bones, a light dawning, "you mean _work_?"    "Strange, is it not," mused Hamilton, "that we should  consider----Hullo!"    They followed the direction of his eyes.    A white bird was circling groggily above the plantation, as though  uncertain where to alight. There was weariness in the beat of its wings,  in the irregularity of its flight. Bones leapt over the rail of the  verandah and ran towards the square. He slowed down as he came to a  place beneath the bird, and whistled softly.    Bones's whistle was a thing of remarkable sweetness--it was his one  accomplishment, according to Hamilton, and had neither tune nor rhyme.  It was a succession of trills, rising and falling, and presently, after  two hesitating swoops, the bird rested on his outstretched hand. He came  back to the verandah and handed the pigeon to Sanders.    The Commissioner lifted the bird and with gentle fingers removed the  slip of thin paper fastened to its leg by a rubber band.   
