  Sanders was entertaining Patricia Hamilton with stories of native feuds,  when the unexpected deputation squatted in the sun before the verandah.    "O Ko-boru," hailed Sanders, "why do you come?"    Ko-boru was all for a long and impressive palaver, but recognized a  certain absence of encouragement in the Commissioner's tone. Therefore  he came straight to the point.    "Now, you are our father and our mother, Sandi," he said, in conclusion,  "and when you speak, all wonders happen. Also you have very beautiful  friends, Militini, who speak a word and set his terrible soldiers moving  like leopards towards a kill, and Tibbetti, the young one who is  innocent and simple. So I say to you, Sandi, that if you speak one word  to Yoka, he will come back to my daughter, his wife."    Sanders stood by the rail of the stoep and looked down upon the  spokesman.    "I hear strange things, Ko-boru," he said quietly. "They tell me stories  of a woman with many lovers and an evil tongue; and once there came to  me Yoka with a wounded head, for this daughter of yours is very quick in  her anger."    "Lord," said the flustered Ko-boru, "such things happen even in love."    "All things happen in love," said Sanders, with a little smile, "and, if  it is to be, Yoka will return. Also, if it is to be, he will not go back  to the woman, and she will be free. This palaver is finished."    "Lord," pleaded Ko-boru, "the woman will do no more angry things. Let  him come back from sunrise to moonset----"    "This palaver is finished," repeated Sanders.    On their way back to Bingini the relatives of Ko-boru made a plot. It  was the first plot that had been hatched in the shadow of headquarters  for twenty years.    "Would it be indiscreet to ask what your visitors wanted?" asked the  girl, as the crestfallen deputation was crossing the square to their  canoe.    "It was a marriage palaver," replied Sanders, with a little grimace,  "and I was being requested to restore a husband to a temperamental lady 
