a sister and a subaltern.    The sister's name was Patricia Agatha, the subaltern had been born  Tibbetts, christened Augustus, and named by Hamilton in his arbitrary  way, "Bones."    Whilst sister and subaltern were separated from one another by some  three thousand miles of ocean--as far, in fact, as the Coast is from  Bradlesham Thorpe in the County of Hampshire--Captain Hamilton bore his  responsibilities without displaying a sense of the burden.    When Patricia Hamilton decided on paying a visit to her brother she did  so with his heartiest approval, for he did not realize that in bringing  his two responsibilities face to face he was not only laying the  foundation of serious trouble, but was actually engaged in erecting the  fabric.    Pat Hamilton had come and had been boisterously welcomed by her brother  one white-hot morning, Houssas in undress uniform lining the beach and  gazing solemnly upon Militini's riotous joy. Mr. Commissioner Sanders,  C.M.G., had given her a more formal welcome, for he was a little scared  of women. Bones, as we know, had not been present--which was unfortunate  in more ways than one.    It made matters no easier for the wretched Bones that Miss Hamilton was  an exceedingly lovely lady. Men who live for a long time in native lands  and see little save beautiful figures displayed without art and with  very little adornment, are apt to regard any white woman with regular  features as pretty, when the vision comes to them after a long interval  spent amidst native people. But it needed neither contrast nor  comparison to induce an admiration for Captain Hamilton's sister.    She was of a certain Celtic type, above the medium height, with the  freedom of carriage and gait which is the peculiar possession of her  country-women. Her face was a true oval, and her complexion of that kind  which tans readily but does not freckle.    Eyes and mouth were firm and steadfast; she was made for ready laughter,  yet she was deep enough, and in eyes and mouth alike you read a  tenderness beyond disguise. She had a trinity of admirers: her brother's  admiration was natural and critical; Sanders admired and feared; 
