The east had grown pale, there was a murmur from the dark forests on  either bank, the timorous chirping or bad-tempered squawk of a bird, a  faint fragrance of burning gumwood from the fishing villages  established on the river bank, where, in dancing spots of light, the  women were tending their fires.    There is no intermediate stage on the big river between darkness and  broad daylight. The stars go out all at once, and the inky sky which  serves then becomes a delicate blue. The shadows melt deeper and deeper  into the forest, clearly revealing the outlines of the straight-stemmed  trees. There is just this interregnum of pearl greyness, a sort of  hush-light, which lasts whilst a man counts twenty, before the silver  lances of the sun are flashing through the leaves, and the grey veil  which blurs the islands to shapeless blotches in a river of dull silver  is burnt to nothingness, and the islands are living things of vivid  green set in waters of gold.    "The sunrise!" said Bones, and waved his hand to the east with the air  of one who was responsible for the miracle.    The girl sat in a deep wicker chair and breathed in the glory and the  freshness of the scene. Across the broad river, right ahead of the boat,  a flock of parroquets was flying, screeching their raucous chorus. The  sun caught their brilliant plumage, and she saw, as it seemed, a rainbow  in flight.    "Isn't that wonderful?" she whispered.    Bones peered up at the birds, shading his eyes.    "Just like a jolly old patchwork quilt," he said. "What a pity they  can't talk till you teach 'em! They're awful bad eatin', too, though  some fellers say they make a good curry----"    "Oh, look, look!"    The _Wiggle_ was swerving to the southern bank of the river, and two  majestic flamingos standing at the water's edge had arrested the girl's  attention.    "_They're_ bad eatin', too," said the informative Bones. "The flesh is  fishy an' too fat; heron are just the same."    "Haven't you a soul, Bones?" she asked severely.  
