Three lateral cuts on either cheek was the mark of the M'gimi--wounds  made, upon the warrior's initiation to the order, with the razor-edged  blade of a killing-spear. They lived apart in three camps to the number  of six thousand men, and for five years from the hour of their  initiation they neither married nor courted. The M'gimi turned their  backs to women, and did not suffer their presence in their camps. And if  any man departed from this austere rule he was taken to the Breaking  Tree, his four limbs were fractured, and he was hoisted to the lower  branches, between which a litter was swung, and his regiment sat beneath  the tree neither eating, drinking nor sleeping until he died. Sometimes  this was a matter of days. As for the woman who had tempted his eye and  his tongue, she was a witness.    Thus the M'gimi preserved their traditions of austerity. They were  famous walkers and jumpers. They threw heavy spears and fought great  sham-fights, and they did every violent exercise save till the ground.    This was the sum and substance of the complaint which had at last come  to a head.    S'gono, the spokesman of The Diggers, was a headman of the inner lands,  and spoke with bitter prejudice, since his own son had been rejected by  the M'gimi captains as being unworthy.    "Shall we men dig and sow for such as these?" he asked. "Now give a  judgment, King! Every moon we must take the best of our fruit and the  finest of our fish. Also so many goats and so much salt, and it is  swallowed up."    "Yet if I send them away," said the king, "how shall I protect this land  against the warriors of the Akasava and the evil men of the swamp? Also  of the Ochori, who are four days' march across good ground?"    "Lord King," said S'gono, "are there no M'gimi amongst us who have  passed from the camp and have their women and their children? May not  these take the spear again? And are not we M'joro folk men? By my life!  I will raise as many spears from The Diggers and captain them with 
