"I heard your voice," he said apologetically. "What is the trouble?"    Briefly Sanders related the story the man had told.    "Wow!" said Hamilton, in a paroxysm of delight.    "What's wrong?"    "Bones!" shouted Hamilton. "Bones is the fellow. Let him go up and  subdue her with his eye. He's the very fellow. I'll go over and call  him, sir."    He hustled into his clothing, slipped on a mackintosh, and, making his  way across the dark square, admitted himself to the sleeping-hut of  Lieutenant Tibbetts. By the light of his electric torch he discovered  the slumberer. Bones lay on his back, his large mouth wide open, one  thin leg thrust out from the covers, and he was making strange noises.  Hamilton found the lamp and lit it, then he proceeded to the  heart-breaking task of waking his subordinate. "Up, you lazy devil!" he  shouted, shaking Bones by the shoulder.    Bones opened his eyes and blinked rapidly. "On the word 'One!'" he said  hoarsely, "carry the left foot ten inches to the left front, at the same  time bringing the rifle to a horizontal position at the right side.  One!"    "Wake up, wake up, Bones!"    Bones made a wailing noise. It was the noise of a mother panther who has  returned to her lair to discover that her offspring have been eaten by  wild pigs. "Whar-r-ow-ow!" he said, and turned over on his right side.    Hamilton pocketed his torch, and, lifting Bones bodily from the bed, let  him fall with a thud.    Bones scrambled up, staring. "Gentlemen of the jury," he said, "I stand  before you a ruined man. Drink has been my downfall, as the dear old  judge remarked. I _did_ kill Wilfred Morgan, and I plead the unwritten  law." He saluted stiffly, collapsed on to his pillow, and fell instantly  into a deep child-like sleep.    Hamilton groaned. He had had occasion to wake Bones from his beauty  sleep before, but he had never been as bad as this. He took a soda  siphon from the little sideboard and depressed the lever, holding the  outlet above his victim's head. 
