   He picked up his hat and his lips were pressed tight--a gesture and a  grimace which stood for grim conviction.    "What are they worth to-day?" asked Bones, after a pause.    "What are they worth to-day?"  Mr. Fred frowned heavily at the ceiling.  "Now, what are they worth to-day?  I forget how much I've spent on  'em--they're in dock now."    Bones tightened _his_ lips, too.    "They're in dock now?" he said.  He scratched his nose.  "Dear old Fred  Pole," he said, "you're a jolly old soul.  By Jove that's not bad!  'Pole' an' 'soul' rhyme--did you notice it?"    Fred had noticed it.    "It's rum," said Bones, shaking his head, "it is rum how things get  about.  How did you know, old fellow-citizen, that I was going in for  shippin'?"    Mr. Fred Pole did not know that Bones was going in for shipping, but he  smiled.    "There are few things that happen in the City that I _don't_ know," he  admitted modestly.    "The Tibbetts Line," said Bones firmly, "will fly a house-flag of  purple and green diagonally--that is, from corner to corner.  There  will be a yellow anchor in a blue wreath in one corner and a capital T  in a red wreath in the other."    "Original, distinctly original," said Fred in wondering admiration.  "Wherever did you get that idea?"    "I get ideas," confessed Bones, blushing, "some times in the night,  sometimes in the day.  The fleet"--Bones liked the sound of the word  and repeated it--"the fleet will consist of the _Augustus_, the  _Sanders_--a dear old friend of mine living at Hindhead--the  _Patricia_--another dear old friend of mine living at Hindhead, too--in  fact, in the same house.  To tell you the truth, dear old Fred Pole,  she's married to the other ship.  And there'll be the _Hamilton_,  another precious old soul, a very, very, very, very dear friend of mine  who's comin' home shortly----"    "Well, what shall we say, Mr. Tibbetts?" said Fred, who had an early  luncheon appointment.  "Would you care to buy the two boats at the same 
