   He glared from one face to the other with a ferocity of expression  which did no more than indicate the strength of his conviction.    "Why not keep the money in the family, dear old Ham?  That's what I ask  you.  Answer me that."  He leaned back in his chair, thrust his hands  in his trousers pockets, and blandly surveyed his discomfited audience.    "But you've got to have actors, my dear chap," said Hamilton.    "Naturally and necessarily," replied Bones, nodding with very large  nods.  "And we have them.  Who is Jasper Brown, the villain who tries  to rob the poor girl of her legacy and casts the vilest aspersions upon  her jolly old name?"    "Who is?" asked the innocent Hamilton.    "You are," said Bones.    Hamilton gasped.    "Who is Frank Fearnot, the young and handsome soldier--well, not  necessarily handsome, but pretty good-looking--who rescues the girl  from her sad predicament?"    "Well, that can't be me, anyway," said Hamilton.    "It is not," said Bones.  "It is me!  Who is the gorgeous but sad old  innocent one who's chased by you, Ham, till the poor little soul  doesn't know which way to turn, until this jolly young officer steps  brightly on the scene, whistling a merry tune, and, throwing his arms  about her, saves her, dear old thing, from her fate--or, really, from a  perfectly awful rotten time."    "Who is she?" asked Hamilton softly.    Bones blinked and turned to the girl slowly.    "My dear old miss," he said, "what do you think?"    "What do I think?" asked the startled girl.  "What do I think about  what?"    "There's a part," said Bones--"there's one of the grandest parts that  was ever written since Shakespeare shut his little copybook."    "You're not suggesting that I should play it?" she asked, open-mouthed.    "Made for you, dear old typewriter, positively made for you, that  part," murmured Bones.    "Of course I shall do nothing so silly," said the girl, with a laugh.  "Oh, Mr. Tibbetts, you really didn't think that I'd do such a----" 
