"You're clever, ain't you?" he asked.  "You're wise--I don't think!  Look at this!"    He handed the telegram to the nearest of his companions, who was the  tall, thin, and non-explosive partner, and he in turn passed it without  a word to his more choleric companion.    "You don't mean to say he's going to buy it?"    "That's what it says, doesn't it?" said the triumphant Mr. Staines.    "It's a catch," said the explosive man suspiciously.    "Not on your life," replied the scornful Staines.  "Where does the  catch come in?  We've done nothing he could catch us for?"    "Let's have a look at that telegram again," said the thin man, and,  having read it in a dazed way, remarked: "He'll wait for you at the  office until nine.  Well, Jack, nip up and fix that deal.  Take the  transfers with you.  Close it and take his cheque.  Take anything he'll  give you, and get a special clearance in the morning, and, anyway, the  business is straight."    Honest John breathed heavily through his nose and staggered from the  bar, and the suspicious glances of the barman were, for once,  unjustified, for Mr. Staines was labouring under acute emotions.    He found Bones sitting at his desk, a very silent, taciturn Bones, who  greeted him with a nod.    "Sit down," said Bones.  "I'll take that property.  Here's my cheque."    With trembling fingers Mr. Staines prepared the transfers.  It was he  who scoured the office corridors to discover two agitated char-ladies  who were prepared to witness his signature for a consideration.    He folded the cheque for twenty thousand pounds reverently and put it  into his pocket, and was back again at the Stamford Hotel so quickly  that his companions could not believe their eyes.    "Well, this is the rummiest go I have ever known," said the explosive  man profoundly.  "You don't think he expects us to call in the morning  and buy it back, do you?"    Staines shook his head.    "I know he doesn't," he said grimly.  "In fact, he as good as told me 
