course a jolly old poet like me, or like any other old fellow, like  Shakespeare, if you like--to go from the sublime to the ridiculous--has  fits of poetising that mean absolutely nothing.  It doesn't follow that  if a poet like Browning or me writes fearfully enthusiastically and all  that sort of thing about a person...  No disrespect, you understand,  dear old miss."    "Quite," she said, and wondered.    "I take a subject for a verse," said Bones airily, waving his hand  toward Throgmorton Street.  "A 'bus, a fuss, a tram, a lamb, a hat, a  cat, a sunset, a little flower growing on the river's brim, and all  that sort of thing--any old subject, dear old miss, that strikes me in  the eye--you understand?"    "Of course I understand," she said readily.  "A poet's field is  universal, and I quite understand that if he writes nice things about  his friends he doesn't mean it."    "Oh, but doesn't he?" said Bones truculently.  "Oh, doesn't he, indeed?  That just shows what a fat lot you know about it, jolly old Miss  Marguerite.  When I write a poem about a girl----"    "Oh, I see, they're about girls," said she a little coldly.    "About _a_ girl," said Bones, this time so pointedly that his confusion  was transferred immediately to her.    "Anyway, they don't mean anything," she said bravely.    "My dear young miss"--Bones rose, and his voice trembled as he laid his  hand on the typewriter where hers had been a second before--"my dear  old miss," he said, jingling with the letters "a" and "e" as though he  had originally put out his hand to touch the keyboard, and was in no  way surprised and distressed that the little hand which had covered  them had been so hastily withdrawn, "I can only tell you----"    "There is your telephone bell," she said hurriedly.  "Shall I answer  it?"  And before Bones could reply she had disappeared.    He went back to his flat that night with his mind made up.  He would  show her those beautiful verses.  He had come to this conclusion many 
