   They discussed Bones in terms equally unflattering.  They likened Bones  to all representatives of the animal world whose characteristics are  extreme foolishness, but at last they came into a saner, calmer frame  of mind.    Miss Clara Stegg seated herself on the frowsy sofa--indispensable to a  Pimlico furnished flat--and, with her elbow on one palm and her chin on  another, reviewed the situation.  She was the brains of a little  combination which had done so much to distress and annoy susceptible  financiers in the City of London.  (The record of the Stegg sisters may  be read by the curious, or, at any rate, by as many of the curious as  have the _entrée_ to the Record Department of Scotland Yard.)    The Steggs specialised in finance, and operated exclusively in high  financial circles.  There was not a fluctuation of the market which  Miss Clara Stegg did not note; and when Rubber soared sky-high, or  Steel Preferred sagged listlessly, she knew just who was going to be  affected, and just how approachable they were.    During the War the Stegg sisters had opened a new department, so to  speak, dealing with Government contracts, and the things which they  knew about the incomes of Government contractors the average surveyor  of taxes would have given money to learn.    "It was my mistake, Bertha," she said at last, "though in a sense it  wasn't.  I tried him simply, because he's simple.  If you work  something complicated on a fellow like that, you're pretty certain to  get him guessing."    She went out of the room, and presently returned with four ordinary  exercise-books, one of which she opened at a place where a page was  covered with fine writing, and that facing was concealed by a sheet of  letter-paper which had been pasted on to it.  The letter-paper bore the  embossed heading of Schemes Limited, the epistle had reference to a  request for an autograph which Bones had most graciously granted.    The elder woman looked at the signature, biting her nether lip.    "It is almost too late now.  What is the time?" she asked. 
