City that the Company is to be reconstructed, and that a considerable  amount of new capital has been found, with the object of expanding its  existing business."    Bones read the paragraph many times, and at the conclusion of each  reading returned to his reverie.  Presently he rose and strolled into  the office of his secretary, and the girl looked up with a smile as  Bones seated himself on the edge of her table.    "Young miss," he said soberly, "do you ever hear anybody talking about  me in this jolly old City?"    "Why, yes," she said in surprise.    "Fearfully complimentarily, dear old miss?" asked Bones carelessly, and  the girl's colour deepened.    "I don't think it matters what people say about one, do you?"    "It doesn't matter to me," said Bones, "so long as one lovely old  typewriter has a good word for poor old Bones."  He laid his hand upon  hers, and she suffered it to remain there without protest.  "They think  I'm a silly old ass, don't they?"    "Oh, no," she said quickly, "they don't think that.  They say you're  rather unconventional."    "Same thing," said Bones.  "Anybody who's unconventional in business is  a silly old ass."    He squeezed the hand under his, and again she did not protest or  withdraw it from his somewhat clammy grip.    "Dear old darling----" began Bones, but she stopped him with a warning  finger.    "Dear old typewriter," said Bones, unabashed, but obedient, "suppose  something happened to the clever old Johnny who presides over this  office--the brains of the department, if I may be allowed to say so?"    "Captain Hamilton?" said the girl in surprise.    "No, me," said Bones, annoyed.  "Gracious Heavens, dear old key-tapper,  didn't I say me?"    "Something happen to you?" she said in alarm.  "Why, what could happen  to you?"    "Suppose I went broke?" said Bones, with the comfortable air of one who  was very unlikely to go broke.  "Suppose I had terrific and tremendous  and cataclysmic and what's-the-other-word losses?" 
