"My old typewriter, frivolous one," said Bones truculently.  "Any  objection?"    "Of course not," said Hamilton calmly.  "Miss Whitland is a most  charming girl, and Vera will be delighted to meet her."    Bones choked his gratitude and wrung the other's hand for fully two  minutes.    He spent the rest of the week in displaying to Hamilton the frank  ambitions of his mind toward Miss Marguerite Whitland.  Whenever he had  nothing to do--which seemed most of the day--he strolled across to  Hamilton's desk and discoursed upon the proper respect which all  right-thinking young officers have for old typewriters.  By the end of  the week Hamilton had the confused impression that the very pretty girl  who ministered to the literary needs of his partner, combined the  qualities of a maiden aunt with the virtues of a grandmother, and that  Bones experienced no other emotion than one of reverential wonder,  tinctured with complete indifference.    On the sixty-fourth lecture Hamilton struck.    "Of course, dear old thing," Bones was saying, "to a jolly old brigand  like you, who dashes madly down from his mountain lair and takes the  first engaging young person who meets his eye----"    Hamilton protested vigorously, but Bones silenced him with a lordly  gesture.    "I say, to a jolly old rascal like you it may seem--what is the word?"    "'Inexplicable,' I suppose, is the word you are after," said Hamilton.    "That's the fellow; you took it out of my mouth," said Bones.  "It  sounds inexplicable that I can be interested in a platonic, fatherly  kind of way in the future of a lovely old typewriter."    "It's not inexplicable at all," said Hamilton bluntly.  "You're in love  with the girl."    "Good gracious Heavens!" gasped Bones, horrified.  "Ham, my dear old  boy.  Dicky Orum, Dicky Orum, old thing!"    Sunday morning brought together four solemn people, two of whom were  men, who felt extremely awkward and showed it, and two of whom behaved  as though they had known one another all their lives.    Bones, who stood alternately on his various legs, was frankly astounded 
