   "It's a jolly good 'bus," he said.  "I thought of running down to  Brighton on Sunday."    Hamilton got up and walked slowly across the room with his hands in his  pockets.    "You're thinking of running down to Brighton, are you?" he said.  "Is  it one of those kind of cars where you have to do your own running?"    Bones, with a good-natured smile, also rose from his desk and walked to  the window.    "My car," he said, and waved his hand to the street.    By craning his neck, Hamilton was able to get a view of the patch of  roadway immediately in front of the main entrance to the building.  And  undoubtedly there was a car in waiting--a long, resplendent machine  that glittered in the morning sunlight.    "What's the pink cushion on the seat?" asked Hamilton.    "That's not a pink cushion, dear old myoptic," said Bones calmly;  "that's my chauffeur--Ali ben Ahmed."    "Good lor!" said the impressed Hamilton.  "You've a nerve to drive into  the City with a sky-blue Kroo boy."    Bones shrugged his shoulders.    "We attracted a certain amount of attention," he admitted, not without  satisfaction.    "Naturally," said Hamilton, going back to his desk.  "People thought  you were advertising Pill Pellets for Pale Poultry.  When did you buy  this infernal machine?"    Bones, at his desk, crossed his legs and put his fingers together.    "Negotiations, dear old Ham, have been in progress for a month," he  recited.  "I have been taking lessons on the quiet, and to-day--proof!"  He took out his pocket-book and threw a paper with a lordly air towards  his partner.  It fell half-way on the floor.    "Don't trouble to get up," said Hamilton.  "It's your motor licence.  You needn't be able to drive a car to get that."    And then Bones dropped his attitude of insouciance and became a  vociferous advertisement for the six-cylinder Carter-Crispley ("the big  car that's made like a clock").  He became double pages with  illustrations and handbooks and electric signs.  He spoke of Carter and 
