bound up in their credulity and faith in his integrity.  Some of them  discovered that later, but the majority drifted out of his circle  poorer without being wiser, for Mr. Hyane played a wonderful game of  piquet, and seemed to be no more than abnormally lucky.    His mother had been a Miss Whitland, his father was the notorious  Colonel Hyane, who boasted that his library was papered with High Court  writs, and who had had the distinction of being escorted from Monte  Carlo by the police of the Principality.    Mr. Jackson Hyane was a student of men and affairs.  Very little  escaped his keen observation, and he had a trick of pigeon-holing  possibilities of profit, and forgetting them until the moment seemed  ripe for their exploitation.  He was tall and handsome, with a smile  which was worth at least five thousand pounds a year to him, for it  advertised his boyish innocence and enthusiasm--he who had never been  either a boy or enthusiastic.    One grey October day he put away his pass-book into a drawer and locked  it, and took from a mental pigeon-hole the materials of an immature  scheme.  He dressed himself soberly and well, strolled down into  Piccadilly, and calling a cab, drove to the block of City buildings  which housed the flourishing business of Tibbetts and Hamilton, Limited.    The preliminaries to this invasion had been very carefully settled.  He  had met Miss Marguerite Whitland by "accident" a week before, had  called at her lodgings with an old photograph of her father, which he  had providentially discovered, and had secured from her a somewhat  reluctant acceptance of an invitation to lunch.    Bones looked up from his desk as the debonair young man strolled in.    "You don't know me, Mr. Tibbetts," said Jackson Hyane, flashing his  famous smile.  "My name is Hyane."    It was his first meeting with Bones, but by no means the first time  that Jackson had seen him.    "My dear old Hyane, sit down," said Bones cheerfully.  "What can we do  for you?"    Mr. Hyane laughed.    
